# JSON Schema: A Media Type for Describing JSON Documents

## Abstract

JSON Schema defines the media type `application/schema+json`, a JSON-based
format for describing the structure of JSON data. JSON Schema asserts what a
JSON document must look like, ways to extract information from it, and how to
interact with it. The `application/schema-instance+json` media type provides
additional feature-rich integration with `application/schema+json` beyond what
can be offered for `application/json` documents.

## Note to Readers

The issues list for this draft can be found at
<https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/issues>.

For additional information, see <https://json-schema.org/>.

To provide feedback, use this issue tracker, the communication methods listed on
the homepage, or email the document editors.

## Table of Contents

## Introduction

JSON Schema is a JSON media type for defining the structure of JSON data. JSON
Schema is intended to define validation, documentation, hyperlink navigation,
and interaction control of JSON data.

This specification defines JSON Schema core terminology and mechanisms,
including pointing to another JSON Schema by reference, dereferencing a JSON
Schema reference, specifying the dialect being used, specifying a dialect's
vocabulary requirements, and defining the expected output.

Other specifications define the vocabularies that perform assertions about
validation, linking, annotation, navigation, and interaction.

## Conventions and Terminology

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](#rfc2119).

The terms "JSON", "JSON text", "JSON value", "member", "element", "object",
"array", "number", "string", "boolean", "true", "false", and "null" in this
document are to be interpreted as defined in [RFC 8259](#rfc8259).

## Overview

This document proposes a new media type `application/schema+json` to identify a
JSON Schema for describing JSON data. It also proposes a further optional media
type, `application/schema-instance+json`, to provide additional integration
features. JSON Schemas are themselves JSON documents. This, and related
specifications, define keywords allowing authors to describe JSON data in
several ways.

JSON Schema uses keywords to assert constraints on JSON instances or annotate
those instances with additional information. Additional keywords are used to
apply assertions and annotations to more complex JSON data structures, or based
on some sort of condition.

To facilitate re-use, keywords can be organized into vocabularies. A vocabulary
consists of a list of keywords, together with their syntax and semantics. A
dialect is defined as a set of vocabularies and their required support
identified in a meta-schema.

JSON Schema can be extended either by defining additional vocabularies, or less
formally by defining additional keywords outside of any vocabulary. Unrecognized
individual keywords simply have their values collected as annotations, while the
behavior with respect to an unrecognized vocabulary can be controlled when
declaring which vocabularies are in use.

This document defines a core vocabulary that MUST be supported by any
implementation, and cannot be disabled. Its keywords are each prefixed with a
"$" character to emphasize their required nature. This vocabulary is essential
to the functioning of the `application/schema+json` media type, and is used to
bootstrap the loading of other vocabularies.

Additionally, this document defines a RECOMMENDED vocabulary of keywords for
applying subschemas conditionally, and for applying subschemas to the contents
of objects and arrays. Either this vocabulary or one very much like it is
required to write schemas for non-trivial JSON instances, whether those schemas
are intended for assertion validation, annotation, or both. While not part of
the required core vocabulary, for maximum interoperability this additional
vocabulary is included in this document and its use is strongly encouraged.

Further vocabularies for purposes such as structural validation or hypermedia
annotation are defined in other documents. These other documents each define a
dialect collecting the standard sets of vocabularies needed to write schemas for
that document's purpose.

## Definitions

### JSON Document

A JSON document is an information resource (series of octets) described by the
`application/json` media type.

In JSON Schema, the terms "JSON document", "JSON text", and "JSON value" are
interchangeable because of the data model it defines in {{data-model}}.

JSON Schema is only defined over JSON documents. However, any document or memory
structure that can be parsed into or processed according to the JSON Schema data
model can be interpreted against a JSON Schema, including media types like
[CBOR](#rfc7049).

### Instance

A JSON document to which a schema is applied is known as an "instance".

JSON Schema is defined over `application/json` or compatible documents,
including media types with the `+json` structured syntax suffix.

Among these, this specification defines the `application/schema-instance+json`
media type which defines handling for fragments in the IRI.

#### Instance Data Model {#data-model}

JSON Schema interprets documents according to a data model. A JSON value
interpreted according to this data model is called an "instance".

An instance has one of six primitive types, and a range of possible values
depending on the type:

- *null*: A JSON "null" value
- boolean: A "true" or "false" value, from the JSON "true" or "false" value
- *object*: An unordered set of properties mapping a string to an instance, from
  the JSON "object" value
- *array*: An ordered list of instances, from the JSON "array" value
- *number*: An arbitrary-precision, base-10 decimal number value, from the JSON
  "number" value
- *string*: A string of Unicode code points, from the JSON "string" value

Whitespace and formatting concerns, including different lexical representations
of numbers that are equal within the data model, are thus outside the scope of
JSON Schema. JSON Schema [vocabularies](#vocabulary) that wish to work with such
differences in lexical representations SHOULD define keywords to precisely
interpret formatted strings within the data model rather than relying on having
the original JSON representation Unicode characters available.

Since an object cannot have two properties with the same key, behavior for a
JSON document that tries to define two properties with the same key in a single
object is undefined.

Note that JSON Schema vocabularies are free to define their own extended type
system. This should not be confused with the core data model types defined here.
As an example, "integer" is a reasonable type for a vocabulary to define as a
value for a keyword, but the data model makes no distinction between integers
and other numbers.

#### Instance Equality

Two JSON instances are said to be equal if and only if they are of the same type
and have the same value according to the data model. Specifically, this means:

- both are null; or
- both are true; or
- both are false; or
- both are strings, and are the same codepoint-for-codepoint; or
- both are numbers, and have the same mathematical value; or
- both are arrays, and have an equal value item-for-item; or
- both are objects, and each property in one has exactly one property with a key
  equal to the other's, and that other property has an equal value.

Implied in this definition is that arrays must be the same length, objects must
have the same number of members, properties in objects are unordered, there is
no way to define multiple properties with the same key, and mere formatting
differences (indentation, placement of commas, trailing zeros) are
insignificant.

#### Non-JSON Instances

It is possible to use JSON Schema with a superset of the JSON Schema data model,
where an instance may be outside any of the six JSON data types.

In this case, annotations still apply; but most validation keywords will not be
useful, as they will always pass or always fail.

A custom vocabulary may define support for a superset of the core data model.
The schema itself may only be expressible in this superset; for example, to make
use of the `const` keyword.

### JSON Schema Documents {#schema-document}

A JSON Schema document, or simply a schema, is a JSON document used to describe
an instance. A schema can itself be interpreted as an instance, but SHOULD
always be given the media type `application/schema+json` rather than
`application/schema-instance+json`. The `application/schema+json` media type is
defined to offer a superset of the fragment identifier syntax and semantics
provided by `application/schema-instance+json`.

A JSON Schema MUST be an object or a boolean.

#### JSON Schema Objects and Keywords

Object properties that are applied to the instance are called keywords, or
schema keywords. Broadly speaking, keywords fall into one of five categories:

- *identifiers*: control schema identification through setting a IRI for the
  schema and/or changing how the base IRI is determined
- *assertions*: produce a boolean result when applied to an instance
- *annotations*: attach information to an instance for application use
- *applicators*: apply one or more subschemas to a particular location in the
  instance, and combine or modify their results
- *reserved locations*: do not directly affect results, but reserve a place for
  a specific purpose to ensure interoperability

Keywords may fall into multiple categories, although applicators SHOULD only
produce assertion results based on their subschemas' results. They should not
define additional constraints independent of their subschemas.

Keywords which are properties within the same schema object are referred to as
adjacent keywords.

Extension keywords, meaning those defined outside of this document and its
companions, are free to define other behaviors as well.

A JSON Schema MAY contain properties which are not schema keywords or are not
recognized as schema keywords. The behavior of such keywords is governed by
{{unrecognized}}.

An empty schema is a JSON Schema with no properties.

#### Boolean JSON Schemas

The boolean schema values `true` and `false` are trivial schemas that always
produce themselves as assertion results, regardless of the instance value. They
never produce annotation results.

These boolean schemas exist to clarify schema author intent and facilitate
schema processing optimizations. They behave identically to the following schema
objects (where `not` is part of the subschema application vocabulary defined in
this document).

- `true`: Always passes validation, as if the empty schema `{}`
- `false`: Always fails validation, as if the schema `{ "not": {} }`

While the empty schema object is unambiguous, there are many possible
equivalents to the `false` schema. Using the boolean values ensures that the
intent is clear to both human readers and implementations.

#### Schema Vocabularies

A schema vocabulary, or simply a vocabulary, is a set of keywords, their syntax,
and their semantics. A vocabulary is generally organized around a particular
purpose. Different uses of JSON Schema, such as validation, hypermedia, or user
interface generation, will involve different sets of vocabularies.

Vocabularies are the primary unit of re-use in JSON Schema, as schema authors
can indicate what vocabularies are required or optional in order to process the
schema. Since vocabularies are identified by IRIs in the meta-schema, generic
implementations can load extensions to support previously unknown vocabularies.
While keywords can be supported outside of any vocabulary, there is no analogous
mechanism to indicate individual keyword usage.

A schema vocabulary can be defined by anything from an informal description to a
standards proposal, depending on the audience and interoperability expectations.
In particular, in order to facilitate vocabulary use within non-public
organizations, a vocabulary specification need not be published outside of its
scope of use.

#### Meta-Schemas

A schema that itself describes a schema is called a meta-schema. Meta-schemas
are used to validate JSON Schemas and specify which vocabularies they are using.

Typically, a meta-schema will specify a set of vocabularies, and validate
schemas that conform to the syntax of those vocabularies. However, meta-schemas
and vocabularies are separate in order to allow meta-schemas to validate schema
conformance more strictly or more loosely than the vocabularies' specifications
call for. Meta-schemas may also describe and validate additional keywords that
are not part of a formal vocabulary.

#### Root Schema and Subschemas and Resources {#root}

A JSON Schema resource is a schema which is [canonically](#rfc6596) identified
by an [absolute IRI](#rfc3987). Schema resources MAY also be identified by IRIs,
including IRIs with fragments, if the resulting secondary resource (as defined
by [section 3.5 of RFC 3986](#rfc3986)) is identical to the primary resource.
This can occur with the empty fragment, or when one schema resource is embedded
in another. Any such IRIs with fragments are considered to be non-canonical.

The root schema is the schema that comprises the entire JSON document in
question. The root schema is always a schema resource, where the IRI is
determined as described in {{initial-base}}.[^1]

[^1]: Note that documents that embed schemas in another format will not have a
root schema resource in this sense. Exactly how such usages fit with the JSON
Schema document and resource concepts will be clarified in a future draft.

Some keywords take schemas themselves, allowing JSON Schemas to be nested:

```jsonschema
{
  "title": "root",
  "items": {
    "title": "array item"
  }
}
```

In this example document, the schema titled "array item" is a subschema, and the
schema titled "root" is the root schema.

As with the root schema, a subschema is either an object or a boolean.

As discussed in {{id-keyword}}, a JSON Schema document can contain multiple JSON
Schema resources. When used without qualification, the term "root schema" refers
to the document's root schema. In some cases, resource root schemas are
discussed. A resource's root schema is its top-level schema object, which would
also be a document root schema if the resource were to be extracted to a
standalone JSON Schema document.

Whether multiple schema resources are embedded or linked with a reference, they
are processed in the same way, with the same available behaviors.

## Fragment Identifiers {#fragments}

In accordance with section 3.1 of [RFC 6839](#rfc6839), the syntax and semantics
of fragment identifiers specified for any +json media type SHOULD be as
specified for `application/json`. (At publication of this document, there is no
fragment identification syntax defined for `application/json`.)

Additionally, the `application/schema+json` media type supports two fragment
identifier structures: plain names and JSON Pointers. The
`application/schema-instance+json` media type supports one fragment identifier
structure: JSON Pointers.

The use of JSON Pointers as IRI fragment identifiers is described in [RFC
6901](#rfc6901). For `application/schema+json`, which supports two fragment
identifier syntaxes, fragment identifiers matching the JSON Pointer syntax,
including the empty string, MUST be interpreted as JSON Pointer fragment
identifiers.

Per the W3C's [best practices for fragment
identifiers](#w3cwd-fragid-best-practices-20121025), plain name fragment
identifiers in `application/schema+json` are reserved for referencing locally
named schemas.

Plain name fragments MUST start with a letter ([A-Za-z]) or underscore ("\_"),
followed by any number of letters, digits ([0-9]), hyphens ("-"), underscores
("\_"), and periods ("."). This matches the US-ASCII part of XML's [NCName
production](#xml-names), which allows for compatibility with the recommended
plain name [syntax](#w3crec-xptr-framework-20030325) for XML-based media types.

All fragment identifiers that do not match the JSON Pointer syntax MUST be
interpreted as plain name fragment identifiers.

Defining and referencing a plain name fragment identifier within an
`application/schema+json` document are specified in the [`$anchor`
keyword](#anchors) section.

## General Considerations

### Range of JSON Values

An instance may be any valid JSON value as defined by [JSON](#rfc8259). JSON
Schema imposes no restrictions on type: JSON Schema can describe any JSON value,
including, for example, null.

### Programming Language Independence {#language}

JSON Schema is programming language agnostic, and supports the full range of
values described in the data model. Be aware, however, that some languages and
JSON parsers may not be able to represent in memory the full range of values
describable by JSON.

### Mathematical Integers {#integers}

Some programming languages and parsers use different internal representations
for floating point numbers than they do for integers.

For consistency, integer JSON numbers SHOULD NOT be encoded with a fractional
part.

### Regular Expressions {#regex}

Keywords MAY use regular expressions to express constraints, or constrain the
instance value to be a regular expression. These regular expressions SHOULD be
valid according to the regular expression dialect described in [ECMA-262,
section 21.2.1](#ecma262).

Unless otherwise specified by a keyword, regular expressions MUST NOT be
considered to be implicitly anchored at either end. All regular expression
keywords in this specification and its companion documents are un-anchored.

Regular expressions SHOULD be built with the "u" flag (or equivalent) to provide
Unicode support, or processed in such a way which provides Unicode support as
defined by ECMA-262.

Furthermore, given the high disparity in regular expression constructs support,
schema authors SHOULD limit themselves to the following regular expression
tokens:

- individual Unicode characters, as defined by the [JSON
  specification](#rfc8259);
- simple character classes ([abc]), range character classes ([a-z]);
- complemented character classes ([^abc], [^a-z]);
- simple quantifiers: "+" (one or more), "*" (zero or more), "?" (zero or one),
  and their lazy versions ("+?", "*?", "??");
- range quantifiers: "{x}" (exactly x occurrences), "{x,y}" (at least x, at most
  y, occurrences), {x,} (x occurrences or more), and their lazy versions;
- the beginning-of-input ("^") and end-of-input ("$") anchors;
- simple grouping ("(...)") and alternation ("|").

Finally, implementations MUST NOT take regular expressions to be anchored,
neither at the beginning nor at the end. This means, for instance, the pattern
"es" matches "expression".

### Extending JSON Schema {#extending}

Additional schema keywords and schema vocabularies MAY be defined by any entity.
Save for explicit agreement, schema authors SHALL NOT expect these additional
keywords and vocabularies to be supported by implementations that do not
explicitly document such support.

Implementations MAY provide the ability to register or load handlers for
vocabularies that they do not support directly. The exact mechanism for
registering and implementing such handlers is implementation-dependent.

#### Explicit annotation keywords {#explicit-annotations}

The values of keywords which begin with "x-" MUST be collected as annotations.

Keywords which begin with "x-" symbol MUST NOT affect evaluation of a schema in
any way other than annotation collection.

Consequently, the "x-" prefix is reserved for this purpose, and extension
vocabularies MUST NOT define any keywords which begin with this prefix.

#### Handling of unrecognized or unsupported keywords {#unrecognized}

Implementations SHOULD treat keywords they do not recognize, or that they
recognize but do not support, as annotations, where the value of the keyword is
the value of the annotation. Whether an implementation collects these
annotations or not, they MUST otherwise ignore the keywords.

## Keyword Behaviors

JSON Schema keywords fall into several general behavior categories. Assertions
validate that an instance satisfies constraints, producing a boolean result.
Annotations attach information that applications may use in any way they see
fit. Applicators apply subschemas to parts of the instance and combine their
results.

Extension keywords SHOULD stay within these categories, keeping in mind that
annotations in particular are extremely flexible. Complex behavior is usually
better delegated to applications on the basis of annotation data than
implemented directly as schema keywords. However, extension keywords MAY define
other behaviors for specialized purposes.

Evaluating an instance against a schema involves processing all of the keywords
in the schema against the appropriate locations within the instance. Typically,
applicator keywords are processed until a schema object with no applicators (and
therefore no subschemas) is reached. The appropriate location in the instance is
evaluated against the assertion and annotation keywords in the schema object.
The interactions of those keyword results to produce the schema object results
are governed by {{annot-assert}}, while the relationship of subschema results to
the results of the applicator keyword that applied them is described by
{{applicators}}.

Evaluation of a parent schema object can complete once all of its subschemas
have been evaluated, although in some circumstances evaluation may be
short-circuited due to assertion results. When annotations are being collected,
some assertion result short-circuiting is not possible due to the need to
examine all subschemas for annotation collection, including those that cannot
further change the assertion result.

### Lexical Scope and Dynamic Scope {#scopes}

While most JSON Schema keywords can be evaluated on their own, or at most need
to take into account the values or results of adjacent keywords in the same
schema object, a few have more complex behavior.

The lexical scope of a keyword is determined by the nested JSON data structure
of objects and arrays. The largest such scope is an entire schema document.  The
smallest scope is a single schema object with no subschemas.

Keywords MAY be defined with a partial value, such as a IRI-reference, which
must be resolved against another value, such as another IRI-reference or a full
IRI, which is found through the lexical structure of the JSON document. The
`$id`, `$ref`, and `$dynamicRef` core keywords, and the "base" JSON Hyper-Schema
keyword, are examples of this sort of behavior.

Note that some keywords, such as `$schema`, apply to the lexical scope of the
entire schema resource, and therefore MUST only appear in a schema resource's
root schema.

Other keywords may take into account the dynamic scope that exists during the
evaluation of a schema, typically together with an instance document. The
outermost dynamic scope is the schema object at which processing begins, even if
it is not a schema resource root. The path from this root schema to any
particular keyword (that includes any `$ref` and `$dynamicRef` keywords that may
have been resolved) is considered the keyword's "evaluation path."

Lexical and dynamic scopes align until a reference keyword is encountered. While
following the reference keyword moves processing from one lexical scope into a
different one, from the perspective of dynamic scope, following a reference is
no different from descending into a subschema present as a value. A keyword on
the far side of that reference that resolves information through the dynamic
scope will consider the originating side of the reference to be their dynamic
parent, rather than examining the local lexically enclosing parent.

The concept of dynamic scope is primarily used with `$dynamicRef` and
`$dynamicAnchor`, and should be considered an advanced feature and used with
caution when defining additional keywords. It also appears when reporting errors
and collected annotations, as it may be possible to revisit the same lexical
scope repeatedly with different dynamic scopes. In such cases, it is important
to inform the user of the evaluation path that produced the error or annotation.

### Keyword Interactions

Keyword behavior MAY be defined in terms of the annotation results of
[subschemas](#root) and/or adjacent keywords (keywords within the same schema
object) and their subschemas. Such keywords MUST NOT result in a circular
dependency. Keywords MAY modify their behavior based on the presence or absence
of another keyword in the same [schema object](#schema-document).

### Default Behaviors {#default-behaviors}

A missing keyword MUST NOT produce a false assertion result, MUST NOT produce
annotation results, and MUST NOT cause any other schema to be evaluated as part
of its own behavioral definition. However, given that missing keywords do not
contribute annotations, the lack of annotation results may indirectly change the
behavior of other keywords.

In some cases, the missing keyword assertion behavior of a keyword is identical
to that produced by a certain value, and keyword definitions SHOULD note such
values where known. However, even if the value which produces the default
behavior would produce annotation results if present, the default behavior still
MUST NOT result in annotations.

Because annotation collection can add significant cost in terms of both
computation and memory, implementations MAY opt out of this feature. Keywords
that are specified in terms of collected annotations SHOULD describe reasonable
alternate approaches when appropriate. This approach is demonstrated by the
[`items`](#items) and [`additionalProperties`](#additionalproperties) keywords
in this document.

Note that when no such alternate approach is possible for a keyword,
implementations that do not support annotation collections will not be able to
support those keywords or vocabularies that contain them.

### Identifiers

Identifiers define IRIs for a schema, or affect how such IRIs are resolved in
[references](#referenced), or both. The Core vocabulary defined in this document
defines several identifying keywords, most notably `$id`.

Canonical schema IRIs MUST NOT change while processing an instance, but keywords
that affect IRI-reference resolution MAY have behavior that is only fully
determined at runtime.

While custom identifier keywords are possible, vocabulary designers should take
care not to disrupt the functioning of core keywords. For example, the
`$dynamicAnchor` keyword in this specification limits its IRI resolution effects
to the matching `$dynamicRef` keyword, leaving the behavior of `$ref`
undisturbed.

### Applicators {#applicators}

Applicators allow for building more complex schemas than can be accomplished
with a single schema object. Evaluation of an instance against a [schema
document](#schema-document) begins by applying the [root schema](#root) to the
complete instance document. From there, keywords known as applicators are used
to determine which additional schemas are applied. Such schemas may be applied
in-place to the current location, or to a child location.

The schemas to be applied may be present as subschemas comprising all or part of
the keyword's value. Alternatively, an applicator may refer to a schema
elsewhere in the same schema document, or in a different one. The mechanism for
identifying such referenced schemas is defined by the keyword.

Applicator keywords also define how subschema or referenced schema boolean
[assertion](#assertions) results are modified and/or combined to produce the
boolean result of the applicator. Applicators may apply any boolean logic
operation to the assertion results of subschemas, but MUST NOT introduce new
assertion conditions of their own.

[Annotation](#annotations) results from subschemas are preserved in accordance
with {{collect}} so that applications can decide how to interpret multiple
values. Applicator keywords do not play a direct role in this preservation.

#### Referenced and Referencing Schemas {#referenced}

As noted in {{applicators}}, an applicator keyword may refer to a schema to be
applied, rather than including it as a subschema in the applicator's value. In
such situations, the schema being applied is known as the referenced schema,
while the schema containing the applicator keyword is the referencing schema.

While root schemas and subschemas are static concepts based on a schema's
position within a schema document, referenced and referencing schemas are
dynamic. Different pairs of schemas may find themselves in various referenced
and referencing arrangements during the evaluation of an instance against a
schema.

For some by-reference applicators, such as [`$ref`](#ref), the referenced schema
can be determined by static analysis of the schema document's lexical scope.
Others, such as `$dynamicRef` (with `$dynamicAnchor`), may make use of dynamic
scoping, and therefore only be resolvable in the process of evaluating the
schema with an instance.

### Assertions {#assertions}

JSON Schema can be used to assert constraints on a JSON document, which either
passes or fails the assertions. This approach can be used to validate
conformance with the constraints, or document what is needed to satisfy them.

JSON Schema implementations produce a single boolean result when evaluating an
instance against schema assertions.

An instance can only fail an assertion that is present in the schema.

#### Assertions and Instance Primitive Types

Most assertions only constrain values within a certain primitive type. When the
type of the instance is not of the type targeted by the keyword, the instance is
considered to conform to the assertion.

For example, the `maxLength` keyword from the companion [validation
vocabulary](#json-schema-validation): will only restrict certain strings (that
are too long) from being valid. If the instance is a number, boolean, null,
array, or object, then it is valid against this assertion.

This behavior allows keywords to be used more easily with instances that can be
of multiple primitive types. The companion validation vocabulary also includes a
`type` keyword which can independently restrict the instance to one or more
primitive types. This allows for a concise expression of use cases such as a
function that might return either a string of a certain length or a null value:

```jsonschema
{
  "type": ["string", "null"],
  "maxLength": 255
}
```

If `maxLength` also restricted the instance type to be a string, then this would
be substantially more cumbersome to express because the example as written would
not actually allow null values. Each keyword is evaluated separately unless
explicitly specified otherwise, so if `maxLength` restricted the instance to
strings, then including `"null"` in `type` would not have any useful effect.

### Annotations {#annotations}

JSON Schema can annotate an instance with information, whenever the instance
validates against the schema object containing the annotation, and all of its
parent schema objects. The information can be a simple value, or can be
calculated based on the instance contents.

Annotations are attached to specific locations in an instance. Since many
subschemas can be applied to any single location, applications may need to
decide how to handle differing annotation values being attached to the same
instance location by the same schema keyword in different schema objects.

Unlike assertion results, annotation data can take a wide variety of forms,
which are provided to applications to use as they see fit. JSON Schema
implementations are not expected to make use of the collected information on
behalf of applications.

Unless otherwise specified, the value of an annotation keyword is the keyword's
value. However, other behaviors are possible. For example, [JSON
Hyper-Schema's](#json-hyper-schema) `links` keyword is a complex annotation that
produces a value based in part on the instance data.

While "short-circuit" evaluation is possible for assertions, collecting
annotations requires examining all schemas that apply to an instance location,
even if they cannot change the overall assertion result. The only exception is
that subschemas of a schema object that has failed validation MAY be skipped, as
annotations are not retained for failing schemas.

#### Collecting Annotations {#collect}

Annotations are collected by keywords that explicitly define
annotation-collecting behavior. Note that boolean schemas cannot produce
annotations as they do not make use of keywords.

A collected annotation MUST include the following information:

- The name of the keyword that produces the annotation
- The instance location to which it is attached, as a JSON Pointer
- The evaluation path, indicating how reference keywords such as `$ref` were
  followed to reach the absolute schema location.
- The absolute schema location of the attaching keyword, as a IRI. This MAY be
  omitted if it is the same as the evaluation path from above.
- The attached value(s)

##### Distinguishing Among Multiple Values

Applications MAY make decisions on which of multiple annotation values to use
based on the schema location that contributed the value. This is intended to
allow flexible usage. Collecting the schema location facilitates such usage.

For example, consider this schema, which uses annotations and assertions from
the [Validation specification](#json-schema-validation):

Note that some lines are wrapped for clarity.

```jsonschema
{
  "title": "Feature list",
  "type": "array",
  "prefixItems": [
    {
      "title": "Feature A",
      "properties": {
        "enabled": {
          "$ref": "#/$defs/enabledToggle",
          "default": true
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "title": "Feature B",
      "properties": {
        "enabled": {
          "description": "If set to null, Feature B
                          inherits the enabled
                          value from Feature A",
          "$ref": "#/$defs/enabledToggle"
        }
      }
    }
  ],
  "$defs": {
    "enabledToggle": {
      "title": "Enabled",
      "description": "Whether the feature is enabled (true),
                      disabled (false), or under
                      automatic control (null)",
      "type": ["boolean", "null"],
      "default": null
    }
  }
}
```

In this example, both Feature A and Feature B make use of the re-usable
"enabledToggle" schema. That schema uses the `title`, `description`, and
`default` annotations. Therefore the application has to decide how to handle the
additional `default` value for Feature A, and the additional `description` value
for Feature B.

The application programmer and the schema author need to agree on the usage. For
this example, let's assume that they agree that the most specific `default`
value will be used, and any additional, more generic `default` values will be
silently ignored. Let's also assume that they agree that all `description` text
is to be used, starting with the most generic, and ending with the most
specific. This requires the schema author to write descriptions that work when
combined in this way.

The application can use the evaluation path to determine which values are which.
The values in the feature's immediate "enabled" property schema are more
specific, while the values under the re-usable schema that is referenced to with
`$ref` are more generic. The evaluation path will show whether each value was
found by crossing a `$ref` or not.

Feature A will therefore use a default value of true, while Feature B will use
the generic default value of null. Feature A will only have the generic
description from the "enabledToggle" schema, while Feature B will use that
description, and also append its locally defined description that explains how
to interpret a null value.

Note that there are other reasonable approaches that a different application
might take. For example, an application may consider the presence of two
different values for `default` to be an error, regardless of their schema
locations.

##### Annotations and Assertions {#annot-assert}

Schema objects that produce a false assertion result MUST NOT produce any
annotation results, whether from their own keywords or from keywords in
subschemas.

Note that the overall schema results may still include annotations collected
from other schema locations. Given this schema:

```jsonschema
{
  "oneOf": [
    {
      "title": "Integer Value",
      "type": "integer"
    },
    {
      "title": "String Value",
      "type": "string"
    }
  ]
}
```

Against the instance `"This is a string"`, the title annotation "Integer Value"
is discarded because the type assertion in that schema object fails. The title
annotation "String Value" is kept, as the instance passes the string type
assertions.

### Reserved Locations

A fourth category of keywords simply reserve a location to hold re-usable
components or data of interest to schema authors that is not suitable for
re-use. These keywords do not affect validation or annotation results. Their
purpose in the core vocabulary is to ensure that locations are available for
certain purposes and will not be redefined by extension keywords.

While these keywords do not directly affect results, as explained in
{{non-schemas}} unrecognized extension keywords that reserve locations for
re-usable schemas may have undesirable interactions with references in certain
circumstances.

### Loading Instance Data

While none of the vocabularies defined as part of this or the associated
documents define a keyword which may target and/or load instance data, it is
possible that other vocabularies may wish to do so.

Keywords MAY be defined to use JSON Pointers or Relative JSON Pointers to
examine parts of an instance outside the current evaluation location.

Keywords that allow adjusting the location using a Relative JSON Pointer SHOULD
default to using the current location if a default is desireable.

## The JSON Schema Core Vocabulary {#core}

Keywords declared in this section, which all begin with "$", make up the JSON
Schema Core vocabulary. These keywords are either required in order to process
any schema or meta-schema, including those split across multiple documents, or
exist to reserve keywords for purposes that require guaranteed interoperability.

The Core vocabulary MUST be considered mandatory at all times, in order to
bootstrap the processing of further vocabularies. Meta-schemas that use the
[`$vocabulary`](#vocabulary) keyword to declare the vocabularies in use MUST
explicitly list the Core vocabulary, which MUST have a value of true indicating
that it is required.

The behavior of a false value for this vocabulary (and only this vocabulary) is
undefined, as is the behavior when `$vocabulary` is present but the Core
vocabulary is not included. However, it is RECOMMENDED that implementations
detect these cases and raise an error when they occur. It is not meaningful to
declare that a meta-schema optionally uses Core.

Meta-schemas that do not use `$vocabulary` MUST be considered to require the
Core vocabulary as if its IRI were present with a value of true.

The current IRI for the Core vocabulary is:
`https://json-schema.org/draft/next/vocab/core`.

The current IRI for the corresponding meta-schema is:
`https://json-schema.org/draft/next/meta/core`.

The "$" prefix is reserved for use by the Core vocabulary. Vocabulary extensions
MUST NOT define new keywords that begin with "$".

### Meta-Schemas and Vocabularies {#vocabulary}

Two concepts, meta-schemas and vocabularies, are used to inform an
implementation how to interpret a schema. Every schema has a meta-schema, which
can be declared using the `$schema` keyword.

The meta-schema serves two purposes:

Declaring the vocabularies in use: The `$vocabulary` keyword, when it appears in
a meta-schema, declares which vocabularies are available to be used in schemas
that refer to that meta-schema. Vocabularies define keyword semantics, as well
as their general syntax.

Describing valid schema syntax: A schema MUST successfully validate against its
meta-schema, which constrains the syntax of the available keywords. The syntax
described is expected to be compatible with the vocabularies declared; while it
is possible to describe an incompatible syntax, such a meta-schema would be
unlikely to be useful.

Meta-schemas are separate from vocabularies to allow for vocabularies to be
combined in different ways, and for meta-schema authors to impose additional
constraints such as forbidding certain keywords, or performing unusually strict
syntactical validation, as might be done during a development and testing cycle.
Each vocabulary typically identifies a meta-schema consisting only of the
vocabulary's keywords.

Meta-schema authoring is an advanced usage of JSON Schema, so the design of
meta-schema features emphasizes flexibility over simplicity.

#### The `$schema` Keyword {#keyword-schema}

The `$schema` keyword is both used as a JSON Schema dialect identifier and as
the identifier of a resource which is itself a JSON Schema, which describes the
set of valid schemas written for this particular dialect.

The value of this keyword MUST be a [IRI](#rfc3987) (containing a scheme) and
this IRI MUST be normalized. The current schema MUST be valid against the
meta-schema identified by this IRI.

If this IRI identifies a retrievable resource, that resource SHOULD be of media
type `application/schema+json`.

The `$schema` keyword SHOULD be used in the document root schema object, and MAY
be used in the root schema objects of embedded schema resources. It MUST NOT
appear in non-resource root schema objects. If absent from the document root
schema, the resulting behavior is implementation-defined, but MUST fall within
the following options:

- Refuse to process the schema, as with unsupported required vocabularies
- Assume a specific, documented meta-schema
- Document the process by which it examines the schema and determines which of a
  specific set of meta-schemas to assume

Values for this property are defined elsewhere in this and other documents, and
by other parties.

#### The `$vocabulary` Keyword

The `$vocabulary` keyword is used in meta-schemas to identify the vocabularies
available for use in schemas described by that meta-schema, and whether each
vocabulary is required or optional. Together, this information forms a dialect.

The value of this keyword MUST be an object. The property names in the object
MUST be IRIs (containing a scheme) and each IRI MUST be normalized. Each IRI
that appears as a property name identifies a specific set of keywords and their
semantics.

The IRI MAY be a URL, but the nature of the retrievable resource is currently
undefined, and reserved for future use. Vocabulary authors MAY use the URL of
the vocabulary specification, in a human-readable media type such as `text/html`
or `text/plain`, as the vocabulary IRI.[^2]

[^2]: Vocabulary documents may be added in forthcoming drafts. For now,
identifying the keyword set is deemed sufficient as that, along with meta-schema
validation, is how the current "vocabularies" work today. Any future vocabulary
document format will be specified as a JSON document, so using `text/html` or
other non-JSON formats in the meantime will not produce any future ambiguity.

The values of the object properties MUST be booleans. If the value is true, then
the vocabulary MUST be considered to be required. If the value is false, then
the vocabulary MUST be considered to be optional.

##### Required, optional, and omitted vocabularies

A schema is said to use a dialect and its constituent vocabularies if it is
associated with a meta-schema defining the dialect with `$vocabulary`, either
through `$schema`, through appropriately defined media type parameters or link
relation types, or through documented default implementation-defined behavior in
the absence of an explicit meta-schema. If a meta-schema does not contain
`$vocabulary`, the set of vocabularies in use is determined according to
{{default-vocabs}}.

Any vocabulary in use by a schema and understood by the implementation MUST be
processed in a manner consistent with the semantic definitions contained within
the vocabulary, regardless of whether that vocabulary is required or optional.

Any vocabulary that is not present in `$vocabulary` MUST NOT be made available
for use in schemas described by that meta-schema, except for the core vocabulary
as specified by the introduction to {{core}}.

Implementations that do not support a vocabulary required by a schema MUST
refuse to process that schema.

Implementations that do not support a vocabulary that is optionally used by a
schema SHOULD proceed with processing the schema. The keywords will be
considered to be unrecognized keywords as addressed by {{unrecognized}}. Note
that since the recommended behavior for such keywords is to collect them as
annotations, vocabularies consisting only of annotations will have the same
behavior when used optionally whether the implementation supports them or not.
This allows annotation-only vocabularies to be supported without custom code,
even in implementations that do not support providing custom code for extension
vocabularies.

##### Vocabularies are schema resource-scoped

The `$vocabulary` keyword SHOULD be used in the root schema of any schema
resource intended for use as a meta-schema. It MUST NOT appear in subschemas.

The `$vocabulary` keyword MUST be ignored in schema resources that are not being
processed as a meta-schema. This allows validating a meta-schema M against its
own meta-schema M' without requiring the validator to understand the
vocabularies declared by M.

##### Vocabulary and non-vocabulary keywords

Keywords from different vocabularies, as well as non-vocabulary extension
keywords, can have identical names. These are not considered to be the same
keyword from the perspective of enabling or disabling them through
`$vocabulary`.

In particular the keywords defined in this specification and its companion
documents MUST be considered to be vocabulary keywords, with availability
governed by `$vocabulary` even in implementations that do not support any
extension vocabularies.

Guidance regarding vocabularies with identically-named keywords is provided in
{{vocab-practices}}.

##### Default vocabularies {#default-vocabs}

If `$vocabulary` is absent, an implementation MAY determine behavior based on
the meta-schema if it is recognized from the IRI value of the referring schema's
`$schema` keyword. This is how behavior (such as Hyper-Schema usage) has been
recognized prior to the existence of vocabularies.

If the meta-schema, as referenced by the schema, is not recognized, or is
missing, then the behavior is implementation-defined. If the implementation
proceeds with processing the schema, it MUST assume the use of the core
vocabulary. If the implementation is built for a specific purpose, then it
SHOULD assume the use of all of the most relevant vocabularies for that purpose.

For example, an implementation that is a validator SHOULD assume the use of all
vocabularies in this specification and the companion Validation specification.

##### Non-inheritability of vocabularies

Note that the processing restrictions on `$vocabulary` mean that meta-schemas
that reference other meta-schemas using `$ref` or similar keywords do not
automatically inherit the vocabulary declarations of those other meta-schemas.
All such declarations must be repeated in the root of each schema document
intended for use as a meta-schema. This is demonstrated in [the example
meta-schema](#example-meta-schema).[^3]

[^3]: This requirement allows implementations to find all vocabulary requirement
information in a single place for each meta-schema. As schema extensibility
means that there are endless potential ways to combine more fine-grained
meta-schemas by reference, requiring implementations to anticipate all
possibilities and search for vocabularies in referenced meta-schemas would be
overly burdensome.

#### Updates to Meta-Schema and Vocabulary IRIs

Updated vocabulary and meta-schema IRIs MAY be published between specification
drafts in order to correct errors. Implementations SHOULD consider IRIs dated
after this specification draft and before the next to indicate the same syntax
and semantics as those listed here.

### Base IRI, Anchors, and Dereferencing

To differentiate between schemas in a vast ecosystem, schemas are identified by
[IRI](#rfc3987), and can embed references to other schemas by specifying their
IRI.

Several keywords can accept a relative [IRI-reference](#rfc3987), or a value
used to construct a relative IRI-reference. For these keywords, it is necessary
to establish a base IRI in order to resolve the reference.

#### The `$id` Keyword {#id-keyword}

The `$id` keyword identifies a schema resource with its [canonical](#rfc6596)
IRI.

Note that this IRI is an identifier and not necessarily a network locator. In
the case of a network-addressable URL, a schema need not be downloadable from
its canonical IRI.

If present, the value for this keyword MUST be a string, and MUST represent a
valid [IRI-reference](#rfc3987). This IRI-reference SHOULD be normalized, and
MUST resolve to an [absolute-IRI](#rfc3987) (without a fragment).

The resulting absolute-IRI serves as the base IRI for relative IRI-references in
keywords within the schema resource, in accordance with [RFC 3987 section
6.5](#rfc3987) and [RFC 3986 section 5.1.1](#rfc3986) regarding base IRIs
embedded in content.

The presence of `$id` in a subschema indicates that the subschema constitutes a
distinct schema resource within a single schema document. Furthermore, in
accordance with [RFC 3987 section 6.5](#rfc3987) and [RFC 3986 section
5.1.2](#rfc3986) regarding encapsulating entities, if an `$id` in a subschema is
a relative IRI-reference, the base IRI for resolving that reference is the IRI
of the parent schema resource. Note that an `$id` consisting of an empty IRI or
of the empty fragment only will result in the embedded resource having the same
IRI as the encapsulating resource, which SHOULD be considered an error per
{{duplicate-iris}}.

If no parent schema object explicitly identifies itself as a resource with
`$id`, the base IRI is that of the entire document, as established by the steps
given in the [previous section.](initial-base)

##### Identifying the root schema

The root schema of a JSON Schema document SHOULD contain an `$id` keyword with
an [absolute-IRI](#rfc3987) (containing a scheme, but no fragment).

#### Defining location-independent identifiers {#anchors}

Using JSON Pointer fragments requires knowledge of the structure of the schema.
When writing schema documents with the intention to provide re-usable schemas,
it may be preferable to use a plain name fragment that is not tied to any
particular structural location. This allows a subschema to be relocated without
requiring JSON Pointer references to be updated.

The `$anchor` and `$dynamicAnchor` keywords are used to specify such fragments.
They are identifier keywords that can only be used to create plain name
fragments, rather than absolute IRIs as seen with `$id`.

The base IRI to which the resulting fragment is appended is the canonical IRI of
the schema resource containing the `$anchor` or `$dynamicAnchor` in question.
As discussed in the previous section, this is either the nearest `$id` in the
same or parent schema object, or the base IRI for the document as determined
according to [RFC 3987](#rfc3987) and [RFC 3986](#rfc3986).

Separately from the usual usage of IRIs, `$dynamicAnchor` indicates that the
fragment is an extension point when used with the `$dynamicRef` keyword. This
low-level, advanced feature makes it easier to extend recursive schemas such as
the meta-schemas, without imposing any particular semantics on that extension.
See the section on [`$dynamicRef`](#dynamic-ref) for details.

In most cases, the normal fragment behavior both suffices and is more intuitive.
Therefore it is RECOMMENDED that `$anchor` be used to create plain name
fragments unless there is a clear need for `$dynamicAnchor`.

If present, the value of these keywords MUST be a string and MUST conform to the
plain name fragment identifier syntax defined in {{fragments}}.[^4]

[^4]: Note that the anchor string does not include the "#" character, as it is
not a IRI-reference. An `$anchor`: "foo" becomes the fragment `#foo` when used
in a IRI. See below for full examples.

#### Duplicate schema identifiers {#duplicate-iris}

A schema MAY (and likely will) have multiple IRIs, but there is no way for an
IRI to identify more than one schema. When multiple schemas attempt to identify
as the same IRI through the use of `$id`, `$anchor`, `$dynamicAnchor`, or any
other mechanism, implementations SHOULD raise an error condition. Otherwise the
result is undefined, and even if documented will not be interoperable.

#### Schema References {#references}

Several keywords can be used to reference a schema which is to be applied to the
current instance location. `$ref` and `$dynamicRef` are applicator keywords,
applying the referenced schema to the instance.

As the values of `$ref` and `$dynamicRef` are IRI References, this allows the
possibility to externalise or divide a schema across multiple files, and
provides the ability to validate recursive structures through self-reference.

The resolved IRI produced by these keywords is not necessarily a network
locator, only an identifier. A schema need not be downloadable from the address
if it is a network-addressable URL, and implementations SHOULD NOT assume they
should perform a network operation when they encounter a network-addressable
IRI.

##### Direct References with `$ref` {#ref}

The `$ref` keyword is an applicator that is used to reference a statically
identified schema. Its results are the results of the referenced schema.[^5]

[^5]: Note that this definition of how the results are determined means that
other keywords can appear alongside of `$ref` in the same schema object.

The value of the `$ref` keyword MUST be a string which is a IRI-Reference.
Resolved against the current IRI base, it produces the IRI of the schema to
apply. This resolution is safe to perform on schema load, as the process of
evaluating an instance cannot change how the reference resolves.

##### Dynamic References with `$dynamicRef` {#dynamic-ref}

The `$dynamicRef` keyword is an applicator that allows for deferring the full
resolution until runtime, at which point it is resolved each time it is
encountered while evaluating an instance.

Together with `$dynamicAnchor`, `$dynamicRef` implements a cooperative extension
mechanism that is primarily useful with recursive schemas (schemas that
reference themselves). The extension point is defined with `$dynamicAnchor` and
only exhibits runtime dynamic behavior when referenced with `$dynamicRef`.

The value of the `$dynamicRef` property MUST be a string which is a
IRI-Reference that contains a valid [plain name fragment](#anchors). Resolved
against the current IRI base, it indicates the schema resource used as the
starting point for runtime resolution. This initial resolution is safe to
perform on schema load.

The schema to apply is the outermost schema resource in the [dynamic
scope](#scopes) that defines a `$dynamicAnchor` that matches the plain name
fragment in the initially resolved IRI.

For a full example using these keyword, see {{recursive-example}}.[^6]

[^6]: The difference between the hyper-schema meta-schema in pre-2019 drafts and
an this draft dramatically demonstrates the utility of these keywords.

#### Schema Re-Use With `$defs` {#defs}

The `$defs` keyword reserves a location for schema authors to inline re-usable
JSON Schemas into a more general schema. The keyword does not directly affect
the validation result.

This keyword's value MUST be an object. Each member value of this object MUST be
a valid JSON Schema.

As an example, here is a schema describing an array of positive integers, where
the positive integer constraint is a subschema in `$defs`:

```jsonschema
{
  "type": "array",
  "items": { "$ref": "#/$defs/positiveInteger" },
  "$defs": {
    "positiveInteger": {
      "type": "integer",
      "exclusiveMinimum": 0
    }
  }
}
```

### Comments With `$comment`

This keyword reserves a location for comments from schema authors to readers or
maintainers of the schema.

The value of this keyword MUST be a string. Implementations MUST NOT present
this string to end users. Tools for editing schemas SHOULD support displaying
and editing this keyword. The value of this keyword MAY be used in debug or
error output which is intended for developers making use of schemas.

Schema vocabularies SHOULD allow `$comment` within any object containing
vocabulary keywords. Implementations MAY assume `$comment` is allowed unless the
vocabulary specifically forbids it. Vocabularies MUST NOT specify any effect of
`$comment` beyond what is described in this specification.

Tools that translate other media types or programming languages to and from
`application/schema+json` MAY choose to convert that media type or programming
language's native comments to or from `$comment` values. The behavior of such
translation when both native comments and `$comment` properties are present is
implementation-dependent.

Implementations MAY strip `$comment` values at any point during processing. In
particular, this allows for shortening schemas when the size of deployed schemas
is a concern.

Implementations MUST NOT take any other action based on the presence, absence,
or contents of `$comment` properties. In particular, the value of `$comment`
MUST NOT be collected as an annotation result.

## Loading and Processing Schemas

### Loading a Schema

#### Initial Base IRI {#initial-base}

[RFC 3987 Section 6.5](#rfc3987) and [RFC 3986 Section 5.1](#rfc3986) defines
how to determine the default base IRI of a document.

Informatively, the initial base IRI of a schema is the IRI at which it was
found, whether that was a network location, a local filesystem, or any other
situation identifiable by a IRI of any known scheme.

If a schema document defines no explicit base IRI with `$id` (embedded in
content), the base IRI is that determined per [RFC 3987 Section 6.5](#rfc3987)
and [RFC 3986 section 5](#rfc3986).

If no source is known, or no IRI scheme is known for the source, a suitable
implementation-specific default IRI MAY be used as described in [RFC 3987
Section 6.5](#rfc3987) and [RFC 3986 Section 5.1.4](#rfc3986). It is RECOMMENDED
that implementations document any default base IRI that they assume.

If a schema object is embedded in a document of another media type, then the
initial base IRI is determined according to the rules of that media type.

Unless the `$id` keyword described in an earlier section is present in the root
schema, this base IRI SHOULD be considered the canonical IRI of the schema
document's root schema resource.

#### Loading a referenced schema

The use of IRIs to identify remote schemas does not necessarily mean anything is
downloaded, but instead JSON Schema implementations SHOULD understand ahead of
time which schemas they will be using, and the IRIs that identify them.

When schemas are downloaded, for example by a generic user-agent that does not
know until runtime which schemas to download, see [Usage for
Hypermedia](#hypermedia).

Implementations SHOULD be able to associate arbitrary IRIs with an arbitrary
schema and/or automatically associate a schema's `$id`-given IRI, depending on
the trust that the validator has in the schema. Such IRIs and schemas can be
supplied to an implementation prior to processing instances, or may be noted
within a schema document as it is processed, producing associations as shown in
{{idexamples}}.

#### Detecting a Meta-Schema

Implementations MUST recognize a schema as a meta-schema if it is being examined
because it was identified as such by another schema's `$schema` keyword. This
means that a single schema document might sometimes be considered a regular
schema, and other times be considered a meta-schema.

In the case of examining a schema which is its own meta-schema, when an
implementation begins processing it as a regular schema, it is processed under
those rules. However, when loaded a second time as a result of checking its own
`$schema` value, it is treated as a meta-schema. So the same document is
processed both ways in the course of one session.

Implementations MAY allow a schema to be explicitly passed as a meta-schema, for
implementation-specific purposes, such as pre-loading a commonly used
meta-schema and checking its vocabulary support requirements up front.
Meta-schema authors MUST NOT expect such features to be interoperable across
implementations.

### Dereferencing

Schemas can be identified by any IRI that has been given to them, including a
JSON Pointer or their IRI given directly by `$id`. In all cases, dereferencing a
`$ref` reference involves first resolving its value as a IRI reference against
the current base IRI per [RFC 3986](#rfc3986).

If the resulting IRI identifies a schema within the current document, or within
another schema document that has been made available to the implementation, then
that schema SHOULD be used automatically.

For example, consider this schema:

```jsonschema
{
  "$id": "https://example.net/root.json",
  "type": "array",
  "items": { "$ref": "#item" },
  "$defs": {
    "single": {
      "$anchor": "item",
      "type": "object",
      "additionalProperties": { "$ref": "other.json" }
    }
  }
}
```

When an implementation encounters the `#/$defs/single` schema, it resolves the
`$anchor` value as a fragment name against the current base IRI to form
`https://example.net/root.json#item`.

When an implementation then looks inside the `#/items` schema, it encounters the
`#item` reference, and resolves this to `https://example.net/root.json#item`,
which it has seen defined in this same document and can therefore use
automatically.

When an implementation encounters the reference to "other.json", it resolves
this to `https://example.net/other.json`, which is not defined in this document.
If a schema with that identifier has otherwise been supplied to the
implementation, it can also be used automatically.[^7]

[^7]: What should implementations do when the referenced schema is not known?
Are there circumstances in which automatic network dereferencing is allowed? A
same origin policy? A user-configurable option? In the case of an evolving API
described by Hyper-Schema, it is expected that new schemas will be added to the
system dynamically, so placing an absolute requirement of pre-loading schema
documents is not feasible.

#### JSON Pointer fragments and embedded schema resources {#embedded}

Since JSON Pointer IRI fragments are constructed based on the structure of the
schema document, an embedded schema resource and its subschemas can be
identified by JSON Pointer fragments relative to either its own canonical IRI,
or relative to any containing resource's IRI.

Conceptually, a set of linked schema resources should behave identically whether
each resource is a separate document connected with [schema
references](#referenced), or is structured as a single document with one or more
schema resources embedded as subschemas.

Since IRIs involving JSON Pointer fragments relative to the parent schema
resource's IRI cease to be valid when the embedded schema is moved to a separate
document and referenced, applications and schemas SHOULD NOT use such IRIs to
identify embedded schema resources or locations within them.

Consider the following schema document that contains another schema resource
embedded within it:

```jsonschema
{
  "$id": "https://example.com/foo",
  "items": {
    "$id": "https://example.com/bar",
    "additionalProperties": { }
  }
}
```

The IRI `https://example.com/foo#/items` points to the `items` schema, which is
an embedded resource. The canonical IRI of that schema resource, however, is
`https://example.com/bar`.

For the `additionalProperties` schema within that embedded resource, the IRI
`https://example.com/foo#/items/additionalProperties` points to the correct
object, but that object's IRI relative to its resource's canonical IRI is
`https://example.com/bar#/additionalProperties`.

Now consider the following two schema resources linked by reference using a IRI
value for `$ref`:

```jsonschema
{
  "$id": "https://example.com/foo",
  "items": {
    "$ref": "bar"
  }
}
```

```jsonschema
{
  "$id": "https://example.com/bar",
  "additionalProperties": {}
}
```

Here we see that `https://example.com/bar#/additionalProperties`, using a JSON
Pointer fragment appended to the canonical IRI of the "bar" schema resource, is
still valid, while `https://example.com/foo#/items/additionalProperties`, which
relied on a JSON Pointer fragment appended to the canonical IRI of the "foo"
schema resource, no longer resolves to anything.

Note also that `https://example.com/foo#/items` is valid in both arrangements,
but resolves to a different value. This IRI ends up functioning similarly to a
retrieval IRI for a resource. While this IRI is valid, it is more robust to use
the `$id` of the embedded or referenced resource unless it is specifically
desired to identify the object containing the `$ref` in the second
(non-embedded) arrangement.

An implementation MAY choose not to support addressing schema resource contents
by IRIs using a base other than the resource's canonical IRI, plus a JSON
Pointer fragment relative to that base. Therefore, schema authors SHOULD NOT
rely on such IRIs, as using them may reduce interoperability.[^8]

[^8]: This is to avoid requiring implementations to keep track of a whole stack
of possible base IRIs and JSON Pointer fragments for each, given that all but
one will be fragile if the schema resources are reorganized. Some have argued
that this is easy so there is no point in forbidding it, while others have
argued that it complicates schema identification and should be forbidden.
Feedback on this topic is encouraged. After some discussion, we feel that we
need to remove the use of "canonical" in favour of talking about JSON Pointers
which reference across schema resource boundaries as undefined or even forbidden
behavior (<https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/issues/937>,
<https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/issues/1183>)

Further examples of such non-canonical IRI construction, as well as the
appropriate canonical IRI-based fragments to use instead, are provided in
{{idexamples}}.

### Compound Documents

A Compound Schema Document is defined as a JSON document (sometimes called a
"bundled" schema) which has multiple embedded JSON Schema Resources bundled into
the same document to ease transportation.

Each embedded Schema Resource MUST be treated as an individual Schema Resource,
following standard schema loading and processing requirements, including
determining vocabulary support.

#### Bundling

The bundling process for creating a Compound Schema Document is defined as
taking references (such as `$ref`) to an external Schema Resource and embedding
the referenced Schema Resources within the referring document. Bundling SHOULD
be done in such a way that all IRIs (used for referencing) in the base document
and any referenced/embedded documents do not require altering.

Each embedded JSON Schema Resource MUST identify itself with a IRI using the
`$id` keyword, and SHOULD make use of the `$schema` keyword to identify the
dialect it is using, in the root of the schema resource. It is RECOMMENDED that
the IRI identifier value of `$id` be an Absolute IRI.

When the Schema Resource referenced by a by-reference applicator is bundled, it
is RECOMMENDED that the Schema Resource be located as a value of a `$defs`
object at the containing schema's root. The key of the `$defs` for the now
embedded Schema Resource MAY be the `$id` of the bundled schema or some other
form of application defined unique identifer (such as a UUID). This key is not
intended to be referenced in JSON Schema, but may be used by an application to
aid the bundling process.

A Schema Resource MAY be embedded in a location other than `$defs` where the
location is defined as a schema value.

A Bundled Schema Resource MUST NOT be bundled by replacing the schema object
from which it was referenced, or by wrapping the Schema Resource in other
applicator keywords.

In order to produce identical output, references in the containing schema
document to the previously external Schema Resources MUST NOT be changed, and
now resolve to a schema using the `$id` of an embedded Schema Resource. Such
identical output includes validation evaluation and IRIs or paths used in
resulting annotations or errors.

While the bundling process will often be the main method for creating a Compound
Schema Document, it is also possible and expected that some will be created by
hand, potentially without individual Schema Resources existing on their own
previously.

#### Differing and Default Dialects

When multiple schema resources are present in a single document, schema
resources which do not define with which dialect they should be processed MUST
be processed with the same dialect as the enclosing resource.

Since any schema that can be referenced can also be embedded, embedded schema
resources MAY specify different processing dialects using the `$schema` values
from their enclosing resource.

#### Validating

Given that a Compound Schema Document may have embedded resources which identify
as using different dialects, these documents SHOULD NOT be validated by applying
a meta-schema to the Compound Schema Document as an instance. It is RECOMMENDED
that an alternate validation process be provided in order to validate Schema
Documents. Each Schema Resource SHOULD be separately validated against its
associated meta-schema.[^9]

[^9]: If you know a schema is what's being validated, you can identify if the
schemas is a Compound Schema Document or not, by way of use of `$id`, which
identifies an embedded resource when used not at the document's root.

A Compound Schema Document in which all embedded resources identify as using the
same dialect, or in which `$schema` is omitted and therefore defaults to that of
the enclosing resource, MAY be validated by applying the appropriate
meta-schema.

### Caveats

#### Guarding Against Infinite Recursion

A schema MUST NOT be run into an infinite loop against an instance. For example,
if two schemas `#alice` and `#bob` both have an `allOf` property that refers to
the other, a naive validator might get stuck in an infinite recursive loop
trying to validate the instance. Schemas SHOULD NOT make use of infinite
recursive nesting like this; the behavior is undefined.

#### References to Possible Non-Schemas {#non-schemas}

Subschema objects (or booleans) are recognized by their use with known
applicator keywords or with location-reserving keywords such as [`$defs`](#defs)
that take one or more subschemas as a value. These keywords may be `$defs` and
the standard applicators from this document, or extension keywords from a known
vocabulary, or implementation-specific custom keywords.

Multi-level structures of unknown keywords are capable of introducing nested
subschemas, which would be subject to the processing rules for `$id`. Therefore,
having a reference target in such an unrecognized structure cannot be reliably
implemented, and the resulting behavior is undefined. Similarly, a reference
target under a known keyword, for which the value is known not to be a schema,
results in undefined behavior in order to avoid burdening implementations with
the need to detect such targets.[^10]

[^10]: These scenarios are analogous to fetching a schema over HTTP but
receiving a response with a Content-Type other than `application/schema+json`.
An implementation can certainly try to interpret it as a schema, but the origin
server offered no guarantee that it actually is any such thing. Therefore,
interpreting it as such has security implication and may produce unpredictable
results.

Note that single-level custom keywords with identical syntax and semantics to
`$defs` do not allow for any intervening `$id` keywords, and therefore will
behave correctly under implementations that attempt to use any reference target
as a schema. However, this behavior is implementation-specific and MUST NOT be
relied upon for interoperability.

### Associating Instances and Schemas

#### Usage for Hypermedia {#hypermedia}

JSON has been adopted widely by HTTP servers for automated APIs and robots. This
section describes how to enhance processing of JSON documents in a more RESTful
manner when used with protocols that support media types and [Web
linking](#rfc8288).

##### Linking to a Schema

It is RECOMMENDED that instances described by a schema provide a link to a
downloadable JSON Schema using the link relation "describedby", as defined by
[Linked Data Protocol 1.0, section 8.1](#w3crec-ldp-20150226).

In HTTP, such links can be attached to any response using the [Link
header](#rfc8288). An example of such a header would be:

```
Link: <https://example.com/my-hyper-schema>; rel="describedby"
```

##### Usage Over HTTP

When used for hypermedia systems over a network, [HTTP](#rfc7231) is frequently
the protocol of choice for distributing schemas. Misbehaving clients can pose
problems for server maintainers if they pull a schema over the network more
frequently than necessary, when it's instead possible to cache a schema for a
long period of time.

HTTP servers SHOULD set long-lived caching headers on JSON Schemas. HTTP clients
SHOULD observe caching headers and not re-request documents within their
freshness period. Distributed systems SHOULD make use of a shared cache and/or
caching proxy.

Clients SHOULD set or prepend a User-Agent header specific to the JSON Schema
implementation or software product. Since symbols are listed in decreasing order
of significance, the JSON Schema library name/version should precede the more
generic HTTP library name (if any). For example:

```
User-Agent: product-name/5.4.1 so-cool-json-schema/1.0.2 curl/7.43.0
```

Clients SHOULD be able to make requests with a "From" header so that server
operators can contact the owner of a potentially misbehaving script.

## A Vocabulary for Applying Subschemas

This section defines a vocabulary of applicator keywords that are RECOMMENDED
for use as the basis of other vocabularies.

Meta-schemas that do not use `$vocabulary` SHOULD be considered to require this
vocabulary as if its IRI were present with a value of true.

The current IRI for this vocabulary, known as the Applicator vocabulary, is:
`https://json-schema.org/draft/next/vocab/applicator`.

The current IRI for the corresponding meta-schema is:
`https://json-schema.org/draft/next/meta/applicator`.

### Keyword Independence

Schema keywords typically operate independently, without affecting each other's
outcomes.

For schema author convenience, there are some exceptions among the keywords in
this vocabulary:

- `additionalProperties`, whose behavior is defined in terms of `properties` and
  `patternProperties`
- `items`, whose behavior is defined in terms of `prefixItems`
- `contains`, whose behavior is affected by the presence and value of
  `minContains`

### Keywords for Applying Subschemas in Place {#in-place}

These keywords apply subschemas to the same location in the instance as the
parent schema is being applied. They allow combining or modifying the subschema
results in various ways.

Subschemas of these keywords evaluate the instance completely independently such
that the results of one such subschema MUST NOT impact the results of sibling
subschemas. Therefore subschemas may be applied in any order.

#### Keywords for Applying Subschemas With Logic {#logic}

These keywords correspond to logical operators for combining or modifying the
boolean assertion results of the subschemas. They have no direct impact on
annotation collection, although they enable the same annotation keyword to be
applied to an instance location with different values. Annotation keywords
define their own rules for combining such values.

##### `allOf` {#allof}

This keyword's value MUST be a non-empty array. Each item of the array MUST be a
valid JSON Schema.

An instance validates successfully against this keyword if it validates
successfully against all schemas defined by this keyword's value.

##### `anyOf`

This keyword's value MUST be a non-empty array. Each item of the array MUST be a
valid JSON Schema.

An instance validates successfully against this keyword if it validates
successfully against at least one schema defined by this keyword's value. Note
that when annotations are being collected, all subschemas MUST be examined so
that annotations are collected from each subschema that validates successfully.

##### `oneOf`

This keyword's value MUST be a non-empty array. Each item of the array MUST be a
valid JSON Schema.

An instance validates successfully against this keyword if it validates
successfully against exactly one schema defined by this keyword's value.

##### `not` {#not}

This keyword's value MUST be a valid JSON Schema.

An instance is valid against this keyword if it fails to validate successfully
against the schema defined by this keyword.

#### Keywords for Applying Subschemas Conditionally {#conditional}

Three of these keywords work together to implement conditional application of a
subschema based on the outcome of another subschema. The fourth is a shortcut
for a specific conditional case.

`if`, `then`, and `else` MUST NOT interact with each other across subschema
boundaries. In other words, an `if` in one branch of an `allOf` MUST NOT have an
impact on a `then` or `else` in another branch.

There is no default behavior for `if`, `then`, or `else` when they are not
present. In particular, they MUST NOT be treated as if present with an empty
schema, and when `if` is not present, both `then` and `else` MUST be entirely
ignored.

##### `if`

This keyword's value MUST be a valid JSON Schema.

This validation outcome of this keyword's subschema has no direct effect on the
overall validation result. Rather, it controls which of the `then` or `else`
keywords are evaluated.

Instances that successfully validate against this keyword's subschema MUST also
be valid against the subschema value of the `then` keyword, if present.

Instances that fail to validate against this keyword's subschema MUST also be
valid against the subschema value of the `else` keyword, if present.

If [annotations](#annotations) are being collected, they are collected from this
keyword's subschema in the usual way, including when the keyword is present
without either `then` or `else`.

##### `then`

This keyword's value MUST be a valid JSON Schema.

When `if` is present, and the instance successfully validates against its
subschema, then validation succeeds against this keyword if the instance also
successfully validates against this keyword's subschema.

This keyword has no effect when `if` is absent, or when the instance fails to
validate against its subschema. Implementations MUST NOT evaluate the instance
against this keyword, for either validation or annotation collection purposes,
in such cases.

##### `else`

This keyword's value MUST be a valid JSON Schema.

When `if` is present, and the instance fails to validate against its subschema,
then validation succeeds against this keyword if the instance successfully
validates against this keyword's subschema.

This keyword has no effect when `if` is absent, or when the instance
successfully validates against its subschema. Implementations MUST NOT evaluate
the instance against this keyword, for either validation or annotation
collection purposes, in such cases.

##### `dependentSchemas`

This keyword specifies subschemas that are evaluated if the instance is an
object and contains a certain property.

This keyword's value MUST be an object. Each value in the object MUST be a valid
JSON Schema.

If the object key is a property in the instance, the entire instance must
validate against the subschema. Its use is dependent on the presence of the
property.

Omitting this keyword has the same behavior as an empty object.

##### `propertyDependencies`

This keyword specifies subschemas that are evaluated if the instance is an
object and contains a certain property with a certain string value.

This keyword's value MUST be an object. Each value in the object MUST be an
object whose values MUST be valid JSON Schemas.

If the outer object key is a property in the instance and the inner object key
is equal to the value of that property, the entire instance must validate
against the schema. Its use is dependent on the presence and value of the
property.

Omitting this keyword has the same behavior as an empty object.

### Keywords for Applying Subschemas to Child Instances

Each of these keywords defines a rule for applying its subschema(s) to child
instances, specifically object properties and array items, and combining their
results.

#### Keywords for Applying Subschemas to Arrays

##### `prefixItems`

The value of "prefixItems` MUST be a non-empty array of valid JSON Schemas.

Validation succeeds if each element of the instance validates against the
subschema at the same position, if any. This keyword does not constrain the
length of the array. Only array positions present in both the keyword's value
and the instance value are affected by this keyword.

This keyword produces an annotation value which is the largest index to which
this keyword applied a subschema. The value MAY be a boolean true if a subschema
was applied to every index of the instance, such as is produced by the `items`
keyword. This annotation affects the behavior of `items` and `unevaluatedItems`.

Omitting this keyword has the same assertion behavior as an empty array.

##### `items` {#items}

The value of `items` MUST be a valid JSON Schema.

This keyword applies its subschema to all instance elements at indexes greater
than the length of the `prefixItems` array in the same schema object, as
reported by the annotation result of that `prefixItems` keyword. If no such
annotation result exists, `items` applies its subschema to all instance array
elements.[^11]

[^11]: Note that the behavior of `items` without `prefixItems` is identical to
that of the schema form of `items` in prior drafts. When `prefixItems` is
present, the behavior of `items` is identical to the former `additionalItems`
keyword.

If the `items` subschema is applied to any positions within the instance array,
it produces an annotation result of boolean true, indicating that all remaining
array elements have been evaluated against this keyword's subschema. This
annotation affects the behavior of `unevaluatedItems` in the Unevaluated
vocabulary.

Omitting this keyword has the same assertion behavior as an empty schema.

Implementations MAY choose to implement or optimize this keyword in another way
that produces the same effect, such as by directly checking for the presence and
size of a `prefixItems` array. Implementations that do not support annotation
collection MUST do so.

#### Keywords for Applying Subschemas to Objects

##### `properties`

The value of `properties` MUST be an object. Each value of this object MUST be a
valid JSON Schema.

Validation succeeds if, for each name that appears in both the instance and as a
name within this keyword's value, the child instance for that name successfully
validates against the corresponding schema.

The annotation result of this keyword is the set of instance property names
which are also present under this keyword. This annotation affects the behavior
of `additionalProperties` (in this vocabulary) and `unevaluatedProperties` in
the Unevaluated vocabulary.

Omitting this keyword has the same assertion behavior as an empty object.

##### `patternProperties`

The value of `patternProperties` MUST be an object. Each property name of this
object SHOULD be a valid regular expression, according to the ECMA-262 regular
expression dialect. Each property value of this object MUST be a valid JSON
Schema.

Validation succeeds if, for each instance name that matches any regular
expressions that appear as a property name in this keyword's value, the child
instance for that name successfully validates against each schema that
corresponds to a matching regular expression. Recall: regular expressions are
not implicitly anchored.

The annotation result of this keyword is the set of instance property names
matched by at least one property under this keyword. This annotation affects the
behavior of `additionalProperties` (in this vocabulary) and
`unevaluatedProperties` (in the Unevaluated vocabulary).

Omitting this keyword has the same assertion behavior as an empty object.

##### `additionalProperties` {#additionalproperties}

The value of `additionalProperties` MUST be a valid JSON Schema.

The behavior of this keyword depends on the presence and annotation results of
`properties` and `patternProperties` within the same schema object. Validation
with `additionalProperties` applies only to the child values of instance names
that do not appear in the annotation results of either `properties` or
`patternProperties`.

For all such properties, validation succeeds if the child instance validates
against the `additionalProperties` schema.

The annotation result of this keyword is the set of instance property names
validated by this keyword's subschema. This annotation affects the behavior of
`unevaluatedProperties` in the Unevaluated vocabulary.

Omitting this keyword has the same assertion behavior as an empty schema.

Implementations MAY choose to implement or optimize this keyword in another way
that produces the same effect, such as by directly checking the names in
`properties` and the patterns in `patternProperties` against the instance
property set. Implementations that do not support annotation collection MUST do
so.[^12]

[^12]: In defining this option, it seems there is the potential for ambiguity in
the output format. The ambiguity does not affect validation results, but it does
affect the resulting output format. The ambiguity allows for multiple valid
output results depending on whether annotations are used or a solution that
"produces the same effect" as draft-07. It is understood that annotations from
failing schemas are dropped. See our [Decision
Record](https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/tree/HEAD/adr/2022-04-08-cref-for-ambiguity-and-fix-later-gh-spec-issue-1172.md)
for further details.

##### `propertyNames`

The value of `propertyNames` MUST be a valid JSON Schema.

If the instance is an object, this keyword validates if every property name in
the instance validates against the provided schema. Note the property name that
the schema is testing will always be a string.

Omitting this keyword has the same behavior as an empty schema.

#### Other Keywords for Applying Subschemas

##### `maxContains`

The value of this keyword MUST be a non-negative integer.

This keyword modifies the behavior of `contains` within the same schema object,
as described below in the section for that keyword.

Validation MUST always succeed against this keyword. The value of this keyword
is used as its annotation result.

##### `minContains`

The value of this keyword MUST be a non-negative integer.

This keyword modifies the behavior of `contains` within the same schema object,
as described below in the section for that keyword.

Validation MUST always succeed against this keyword. The value of this keyword
is used as its annotation result.

Per {{default-behaviors}}, omitted keywords MUST NOT produce annotation results.
However, as described in the section for `contains`, the absence of this
keyword's annotation causes `contains` to assume a minimum value of 1.

##### `contains`

The value of this keyword MUST be a valid JSON Schema.

This keyword applies its subschema to array elements or object property values.

An instance is valid against `contains` if the number of elements or property
values that are valid against its subschema is with the inclusive range of the
minimum and (if any) maximum number of occurrences.

The maximum number of occurrences is provided by the `maxContains` keyword
within the same schema object as `contains`. If `maxContains` is absent, the
maximum number of occurrences MUST be unbounded.

The minimum number of occurrences is provided by the `minContains` keyword
within the same schema object as `contains`. If `minContains` is absent, the
minimum number of occurrences MUST be 1.

Implementations MAY implement the dependency on `minContians` and `maxContains`
by inspecting their values rather than reading annotations produced by those
keywords.

This keyword produces an annotation value which is an array of the indexes or
property names to which this keyword validates successfully when applying its
subschema, in ascending order. The value MAY be a boolean `true` if the
subschema validates successfully when applied to every index or property value
of the instance. The annotation MUST be present if the instance array or object
to which this keyword's schema applies is empty.

This annotation affects the behavior of `unevaluatedItems` in the Unevaluated
vocabulary.

The subschema MUST be applied to every array element or object property value
even after the first match has been found, in order to collect annotations for
use by other keywords. This is to ensure that all possible annotations are
collected.

## A Vocabulary for Unevaluated Locations

The purpose of these keywords is to enable schema authors to apply subschemas to
array items or object properties that have not been successfully evaluated
against any dynamic-scope subschema of any adjacent keywords.

These instance items or properties may have been unsuccessfully evaluated
against one or more adjacent keyword subschemas, such as when an assertion in a
branch of an `anyOf` fails. Such failed evaluations are not considered to
contribute to whether or not the item or property has been evaluated. Only
successful evaluations are considered.

If an item in an array or an object property is "successfully evaluated", it is
logically considered to be valid in terms of the representation of the object or
array that's expected. For example if a subschema represents a car, which
requires between 2-4 wheels, and the value of "wheels" is 6, the instance object
is not "evaluated" to be a car, and the "wheels" property is considered
"unevaluated (successfully as a known thing)", and does not retain any
annotations.

Recall that adjacent keywords are keywords within the same schema object, and
that the dynamic-scope subschemas include reference targets as well as lexical
subschemas.

The behavior of these keywords depend on the annotation results of adjacent
keywords that apply to the instance location being validated.

Meta-schemas that do not use `$vocabulary` SHOULD be considered to require this
vocabulary as if its IRI were present with a value of true.

The current IRI for this vocabulary, known as the Unevaluated Applicator
vocabulary, is: `https://json-schema.org/draft/next/vocab/unevaluated`.

The current IRI for the corresponding meta-schema is:
`https://json-schema.org/draft/next/meta/unevaluated`.

### Keyword Independence

Schema keywords typically operate independently, without affecting each other's
outcomes. However, the keywords in this vocabulary are notable exceptions:

- `unevaluatedItems`, whose behavior is defined in terms of annotations from
  `prefixItems`, `items`, `contains`, and itself
- `unevaluatedProperties`, whose behavior is defined in terms of annotations
  from `properties`, `patternProperties`, `additionalProperties`, `contains`,
  and itself

### `unevaluatedItems` {#unevaluateditems}

The value of `unevaluatedItems` MUST be a valid JSON Schema.

The behavior of this keyword depends on the annotation results of adjacent
keywords that apply to the instance location being validated. Specifically, the
annotations from `prefixItems`, `items`, and `contains`, which can come from
those keywords when they are adjacent to the `unevaluatedItems` keyword. Those
three annotations, as well as `unevaluatedItems`, can also result from any and
all adjacent [in-place applicator](#in-place) keywords. This includes but is not
limited to the in-place applicators defined in this document.

If no relevant annotations are present, the `unevaluatedItems` subschema MUST be
applied to all locations in the array. If a boolean true value is present from
any of the relevant annotations, `unevaluatedItems` MUST be ignored. Otherwise,
the subschema MUST be applied to any index greater than the largest annotation
value for `prefixItems`, which does not appear in any annotation value for
`contains`.

This means that `prefixItems`, `items`, `contains`, and all in-place applicators
MUST be evaluated before this keyword can be evaluated. Authors of extension
keywords MUST NOT define an in-place applicator that would need to be evaluated
after this keyword.

If the `unevaluatedItems` subschema is applied to any positions within the
instance array, it produces an annotation result of boolean true, analogous to
the behavior of `items`. This annotation affects the behavior of
`unevaluatedItems` in parent schemas.

Omitting this keyword has the same assertion behavior as an empty schema.

### `unevaluatedProperties` {#unevaluatedproperties}

The value of `unevaluatedProperties` MUST be a valid JSON Schema.

The behavior of this keyword depends on the annotation results of adjacent
keywords that apply to the instance location being validated. Specifically, the
annotations from `properties`, `patternProperties`, `contains`, and
`additionalProperties`, which can come from those keywords when they are
adjacent to the `unevaluatedProperties` keyword. Those four annotations, as well
as `unevaluatedProperties`, can also result from any and all adjacent [in-place
applicator](#in-place) keywords. This includes but is not limited to the
in-place applicators defined in this document.

Validation with `unevaluatedProperties` applies only to the child values of
instance names that do not appear in the `properties`, `patternProperties`,
`additionalProperties`, `contains`, or `unevaluatedProperties` annotation
results that apply to the instance location being validated.

For all such properties, validation succeeds if the child instance validates
against the `unevaluatedProperties` schema.

This means that `properties`, `patternProperties`, `additionalProperties`,
`contains` and all in-place applicators MUST be evaluated before this keyword
can be evaluated. Authors of extension keywords MUST NOT define an in-place
applicator that would need to be evaluated after this keyword.

The annotation result of this keyword is the set of instance property names
validated by this keyword's subschema. This annotation affects the behavior of
`unevaluatedProperties` in parent schemas.

Omitting this keyword has the same assertion behavior as an empty schema.

## Output Formatting {#output}

JSON Schema is defined to be platform-independent. As such, to increase
compatibility across platforms, implementations SHOULD conform to a standard
validation output format. This section describes the minimum requirements that
consumers will need to properly interpret validation results.

### Format

JSON Schema output is defined using the JSON Schema data instance model as
described in section 4.2.1. Implementations MAY deviate from this as supported
by their specific languages and platforms, however it is RECOMMENDED that the
output be convertible to the JSON format defined herein via serialization or
other means.

### Output Formats

This specification defines three output formats. See the "Output Structure"
section for the requirements of each format.

- *Flag*: A boolean which simply indicates the overall validation result with no
  further details.
- *List*: Provides validation information in a flat list structure.

Hierarchical: Provides validation information in a hierarchical structure that
follows the evaluation paths generated while processing the schema.

An implementation MUST provide the "flag" format and SHOULD provide at least one
of the "list" or "hierarchical" formats. Implementations SHOULD specify in their
documentation which formats they support.

### Minimum Information

Beyond the simplistic "flag" output, additional information is useful to aid in
debugging a schema or instance. Each sub-result SHOULD contain the information
contained within this section at a minimum.

A single object that contains all of these components is considered an output
unit.

Implementations MAY elect to provide additional information.

#### Evaluation path

The evaluation path to the schema object that produced the output unit. The
value MUST be expressed as a JSON Pointer, and it MUST include any by-reference
applicators such as `$ref` or `$dynamicRef`.[^13]

[^13]: The schema may not actually have a value at the location indicated by
this pointer. It is provided as an indication of the traversal path only.

```
/properties/width/$ref/allOf/1
```

Note that this pointer may not be resolvable by the normal JSON Pointer process
due to the inclusion of these by-reference applicator keywords.

The JSON key for this information is "evaluationPath".

#### Schema Location

The absolute, dereferenced location of the schema object that produced the
output unit. The value MUST be expressed using the canonical IRI of the relevant
schema resource plus a JSON Pointer fragment that indicates the schema object
that produced the output. It MUST NOT include by-reference applicators such as
`$ref` or `$dynamicRef`.[^14]

[^14]: Note that "absolute" here is in the sense of "absolute filesystem path"
(meaning the complete location) rather than the "absolute-IRI" terminology from
RFC 3987 (meaning with scheme and without fragment). Schema locations will have
a fragment in order to identify the specific schema object.

```
https://example.com/schemas/common#/$defs/allOf/1
```

The JSON key for this information is "schemaLocation".

#### Instance Location

The location of the JSON value within the instance being validated. The value
MUST be expressed as a JSON Pointer.

The JSON key for this information is "instanceLocation".

#### Errors

Any errors produced by the validation. This property MUST NOT be included if the
validation was successful. The value for this property MUST be an object where
the keys are the names of keywords and the values are the error message produced
by the associated keyword.

If the subschema itself is producing the error, that error MUST be listed with
an empty string key.[^15]

[^15]: Although there may be other cases where a subschema can produce an error,
the most common case is the `false` schema. In cases like these, there is no
keyword that produces the error, so there is nothing to use as a key. Thus the
empty string is used instead.

The specific wording for the message is not defined by this specification.
Implementations will need to provide this.

The JSON key for this information is "errors".

#### Annotations

Any annotations produced by the evaluation. This property MUST NOT be included
if the validation result of the containing subschema was unsuccessful.

The value for this property MUST be an object where the keys are the names of
keywords and the values are the annotations produced by the associated keyword.

Each keyword defines its own annotation data type (e.g. `properties` produces a
list of keywords, whereas `title` produces a string).

The JSON key for this information is "annotations".

#### Dropped Annotations

Any annotations produced and subsequently dropped by the evaluation due to an
unsuccessful validation result of the containing subschema. This property MAY be
included if the validation result of the containing subschema was unsuccessful.
It MUST NOT be included if the local validation result of the containing
subschema was successful.

Implementations that wish to provide these annotations MUST NOT provide them as
their default behavior. These annotations MUST only be included by explicitly
configuring the implementation to do so.

The value for this property MUST be an object where the keys are the names of
keywords and the values are the annotations produced by the associated keyword.

Each keyword defines its own annotation data type (e.g. `properties` produces a
list of keywords, whereas `title` produces a string).

The JSON key for this information is "droppedAnnotations".

#### Results from Subschemas

Evaluation results generated by applying a subschema to the instance or a child
of the instance. Keywords which have multiple subschemas (e.g. `anyOf`) will
generally generate an output unit for each subschema. In order to accommodate
potentially multiple results, the value of this property MUST be an array of
output units, even if only a single output unit is produced.

For "list", this property will appear only at the root output unit and will hold
all output units in a flat list.

For "hierarchical", this property will contain results in a tree structure where
each output unit may itself have further nested results.

The sequence of output units within this list is not specified and MAY be
determined by the implementation. Sets of output units are considered equivalent
if they contain the same units, in any order.

The JSON key for these additional results is "details".

### Output Structure

The output MUST be an object containing a boolean property named "valid". When
additional information about the result is required, the output MUST also
contain "details" as described below.

valid: a boolean value indicating the overall validation success or failure

details: the collection of results produced by subschemas

For these examples, the following schema and instances will be used.

```jsonschema
{
  "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/next/schema",
  "$id": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example",
  "type": "object",
  "title": "root",
  "properties": {
    "foo": {
      "allOf": [
        { "required": [ "unspecified-prop" ] },
        {
          "type": "object",
          "title": "foo-title",
          "properties": {
            "foo-prop": {
              "const": 1,
              "title": "foo-prop-title"
            }
          },
          "additionalProperties": { "type": "boolean" }
        }
      ]
    },
    "bar": {
      "$ref": "#/$defs/bar"
    }
  },
  "$defs": {
    "bar": {
      "type": "object",
      "title": "bar-title",
      "properties": {
        "bar-prop": {
          "type": "integer",
          "minimum": 10,
          "title": "bar-prop-title"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```


```json "Failing instance"
{
  "foo": {"foo-prop": "not 1", "other-prop": false},
  "bar": {"bar-prop": 2}
}
```

```json "Passing instance"
{
  "foo": {
    "foo-prop": 1,
    "unspecified-prop": true
  },
  "bar": {"bar-prop": 20}
}
```

The failing instance will produce the following errors:

- The value at `/foo` evaluated at `/properties/foo/allOf/0` by following the
  path `/properties/foo/allOf/0` by the `required` keyword is missing the
  property `unspecified-prop`.
- The value at `/foo/foo-prop` evaluated at
  `/properties/foo/allOf/1/properties/foo-prop` by following the path
  `/properties/foo/allOf/1/properties/foo-prop` by the `const` keyword is not
  the constant value 1.
- The value at `/bar/bar-prop` evaluated at `/$defs/bar/properties/bar-prop` by
  following the path `/properties/bar/$ref/properties/bar-prop` by the `type`
  keyword is not a number.[^16][^17]

[^16]: `minimum` doesn't produce an error because it only operates on instances
that are numbers.

[^17]: Note that the error message wording as depicted in the examples below is
not a requirement of this specification. Implementations SHOULD craft error
messages tailored for their audience or provide a templating mechanism that
allows their users to craft their own messages.

The passing instance will produce the following annotations:

- The keyword `title` evaluated at `` by following the path `` will produce
  `"root"`.
- The keyword `properties` evaluated at `` by following the path `` will produce
  `["foo", "bar"]`.
- The keyword `title` evaluated at `/properties/foo` by following the path
  `/properties/foo` will produce `"foo-title"`.
- The keyword `properties` evaluated at `/properties/foo/allOf/1` by following
  the path `/properties/foo/allOf/1` will produce `["foo-prop"]`.
- The keyword `additionalProperties` evaluated at `/properties/foo/allOf/1` by
  following the path `/properties/foo/allOf/1` will produce
  `["unspecified-prop"]`.
- The keyword `title` evaluated at `/properties/foo/allOf/1/properties/foo-prop`
  by following the path `/properties/foo/allOf/1/properties/foo-prop` will
  produce `"foo-prop-title"`.
- The keyword `title` evaluated at `/$defs/bar` by following the path
  `/properties/bar/$ref` will produce `"bar-title"`.
- The keyword `properties` evaluated at `/$defs/bar` by following the path
  `/properties/var/$ref` will produce `["bar-prop"]`.
- The keyword `title` evaluated at `/$defs/bar/properties/bar-prop` by following
  the path `/properties/bar/$ref/properties/bar-prop` will produce
  `"bar-prop-title"`.

#### Flag

In the simplest case, merely the boolean result for the "valid" valid property
needs to be fulfilled. For this format, all other information is explicitly
omitted.

```json
{
  "valid": false
}
```

Because no errors or annotations are returned with this format, it is
RECOMMENDED that implementations use short-circuiting logic to return failure or
success as soon as the outcome can be determined. For example, if an `anyOf`
keyword contains five subschemas, and the second one passes, there is no need to
check the other three. The logic can simply return with success.

#### List

The "List" structure is a flat list of output units contained within a root
output unit.

The root output unit contains "valid" for the overall result and "details" for
the list of specific results. All other information is explicitly omitted from
the root output unit. If the root schema produces errors or annotations, then
the output node for the root MUST be present within the root output unit's
"details" list with those errors or annotations.

Output units which do not contain errors or annotations SHOULD be excluded from
this format, however implementations MAY choose to include them for
completeness.

```json "Failing results"
{
  "valid": false,
  "details": [
    {
      "valid": false,
      "evaluationPath": "/properties/foo/allOf/0",
      "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/properties/foo/allOf/0",
      "instanceLocation": "/foo",
      "errors": {
        "required": "Required properties [\"unspecified-prop\"] were not present"
      }
    },
    {
      "valid": false,
      "evaluationPath": "/properties/foo/allOf/1/properties/foo-prop",
      "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/properties/foo/allOf/1/properties/foo-prop",
      "instanceLocation": "/foo/foo-prop",
      "errors": {
        "const": "Expected \"1\""
      }
    },
    {
      "valid": false,
      "evaluationPath": "/properties/bar/$ref/properties/bar-prop",
      "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/$defs/bar/properties/bar-prop",
      "instanceLocation": "/bar/bar-prop",
      "errors": {
        "minimum": "2 is less than or equal to 10"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

```json "Passing results"
{
  "valid": true,
  "details": [
    {
      "valid": true,
      "evaluationPath": "",
      "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#",
      "instanceLocation": "",
      "annotations": {
        "title": "root",
        "properties": [
          "foo",
          "bar"
        ]
      }
    },
    {
      "valid": true,
      "evaluationPath": "/properties/foo/allOf/1",
      "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/properties/foo/allOf/1",
      "instanceLocation": "/foo",
      "annotations": {
        "title": "foo-title",
        "properties": [
          "foo-prop"
        ],
        "additionalProperties": [
          "unspecified-prop"
        ]
      }
    },
    {
      "valid": true,
      "evaluationPath": "/properties/bar/$ref",
      "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/$defs/bar",
      "instanceLocation": "/bar",
      "annotations": {
        "title": "bar-title",
        "properties": [
          "bar-prop"
        ]
      }
    },
    {
      "valid": true,
      "evaluationPath": "/properties/foo/allOf/1/properties/foo-prop",
      "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/properties/foo/allOf/1/properties/foo-prop",
      "instanceLocation": "/foo/foo-prop",
      "annotations": {
        "title": "foo-prop-title"
      }
    },
    {
      "valid": true,
      "evaluationPath": "/properties/bar/$ref/properties/bar-prop",
      "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/$defs/bar/properties/bar-prop",
      "instanceLocation": "/bar/bar-prop",
      "annotations": {
        "title": "bar-prop-title"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Hierarchical

The "Hierarchical" structure is a tree structure that follows the evaluation
path during the validation process. Typically, it will resemble the schema as if
all referenced schemas were inlined in place of their associated by-reference
keywords.

All output units are included in this format.

The location properties of the root output unit MAY be omitted.

```json "Failing results (errors)"
{
  "valid": false,
  "evaluationPath": "",
  "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#",
  "instanceLocation": "",
  "details": [
    {
      "valid": false,
      "evaluationPath": "/properties/foo",
      "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/properties/foo",
      "instanceLocation": "/foo",
      "details": [
        {
          "valid": false,
          "evaluationPath": "/properties/foo/allOf/0",
          "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/properties/foo/allOf/0",
          "instanceLocation": "/foo",
          "errors": {
            "required": "Required properties [\"unspecified-prop\"] were not present"
          }
        },
        {
          "valid": false,
          "evaluationPath": "/properties/foo/allOf/1",
          "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/properties/foo/allOf/1",
          "instanceLocation": "/foo",
          "droppedAnnotations": {
            "properties": [ "foo-prop" ],
            "title": "foo-title"
          },
          "details": [
            {
              "valid": false,
              "evaluationPath": "/properties/foo/allOf/1/properties/foo-prop",
              "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/properties/foo/allOf/1/properties/foo-prop",
              "instanceLocation": "/foo/foo-prop",
              "errors": {
                "const": "Expected \"1\""
              },
              "droppedAnnotations": {
                "title": "foo-prop-title"
              }
            },
            {
              "valid": true,
              "evaluationPath": "/properties/foo/allOf/1/additionalProperties",
              "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/properties/foo/allOf/1/additionalProperties",
              "instanceLocation": "/foo/other-prop"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "valid": false,
      "evaluationPath": "/properties/bar",
      "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/properties/bar",
      "instanceLocation": "/bar",
      "details": [
        {
          "valid": false,
          "evaluationPath": "/properties/bar/$ref",
          "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/$defs/bar",
          "instanceLocation": "/bar",
          "droppedAnnotations": {
            "properties": [ "bar-prop" ],
            "title": "bar-title"
          },
          "details": [
            {
              "valid": false,
              "evaluationPath": "/properties/bar/$ref/properties/bar-prop",
              "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/$defs/bar/properties/bar-prop",
              "instanceLocation": "/bar/bar-prop",
              "errors": {
                "minimum": "2 is less than or equal to 10"
              },
              "droppedAnnotations": {
                "title": "bar-prop-title"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

```json "Passing results (annotations)"
{
  "valid": true,
  "evaluationPath": "",
  "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#",
  "instanceLocation": "",
  "annotations": {
    "title": "root",
    "properties": [
      "foo",
      "bar"
    ]
  },
  "details": [
    {
      "valid": true,
      "evaluationPath": "/properties/foo",
      "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/properties/foo",
      "instanceLocation": "/foo",
      "details": [
        {
          "valid": true,
          "evaluationPath": "/properties/foo/allOf/0",
          "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/properties/foo/allOf/0",
          "instanceLocation": "/foo"
        },
        {
          "valid": true,
          "evaluationPath": "/properties/foo/allOf/1",
          "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/properties/foo/allOf/1",
          "instanceLocation": "/foo",
          "annotations": {
            "title": "foo-title",
            "properties": [
              "foo-prop"
            ],
            "additionalProperties": [
              "unspecified-prop"
            ]
          },
          "details": [
            {
              "valid": true,
              "evaluationPath": "/properties/foo/allOf/1/properties/foo-prop",
              "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/properties/foo/allOf/1/properties/foo-prop",
              "instanceLocation": "/foo/foo-prop",
              "annotations": {
                "title": "foo-prop-title"
              }
            },
            {
              "valid": true,
              "evaluationPath": "/properties/foo/allOf/1/additionalProperties",
              "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/properties/foo/allOf/1/additionalProperties",
              "instanceLocation": "/foo/unspecified-prop"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "valid": true,
      "evaluationPath": "/properties/bar",
      "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/properties/bar",
      "instanceLocation": "/bar",
      "details": [
        {
          "valid": true,
          "evaluationPath": "/properties/bar/$ref",
          "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/$defs/bar",
          "instanceLocation": "/bar",
          "annotations": {
            "title": "bar-title",
            "properties": [
              "bar-prop"
            ]
          },
          "details": [
            {
              "valid": true,
              "evaluationPath": "/properties/bar/$ref/properties/bar-prop",
              "schemaLocation": "https://json-schema.org/schemas/example#/$defs/bar/properties/bar-prop",
              "instanceLocation": "/bar/bar-prop",
              "annotations": {
                "title": "bar-prop-title"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Output validation schemas

For convenience, JSON Schema has been provided to validate output generated by
implementations. Its IRI is: <https://json-schema.org/draft/next/output/schema>.

## Security Considerations {#security}

Both schemas and instances are JSON values. As such, all security considerations
defined in [RFC 8259](#rfc8259) apply.

Instances and schemas are both frequently written by untrusted third parties, to
be deployed on public Internet servers. Implementations should take care that
the parsing and evaluating against schemas does not consume excessive system
resources. Implementations MUST NOT fall into an infinite loop.

A malicious party could cause an implementation to repeatedly collect a copy of
a very large value as an annotation. Implementations SHOULD guard against
excessive consumption of system resources in such a scenario.

Servers MUST ensure that malicious parties cannot change the functionality of
existing schemas by uploading a schema with a pre-existing or very similar
`$id`.

Individual JSON Schema vocabularies are liable to also have their own security
considerations. Consult the respective specifications for more information.

Schema authors should take care with `$comment` contents, as a malicious
implementation can display them to end-users in violation of a spec, or fail to
strip them if such behavior is expected.

A malicious schema author could place executable code or other dangerous
material within a `$comment`. Implementations MUST NOT parse or otherwise take
action based on `$comment` contents.

## IANA Considerations

### `application/schema+json`

The proposed MIME media type for JSON Schema is defined as follows:

Type name:: application

Subtype name:: schema+json

Required parameters:: N/A

Encoding considerations:: Encoding considerations are identical to those
specified for the `application/json` media type. See [JSON](#rfc8259).

Security considerations:: See {{security}} above.

Interoperability considerations:: See Sections [6.2](#language),
[6.3](#integers), and [6.4](#regex) above.

Fragment identifier considerations:: See {{fragments}}

### `application/schema-instance+json`

The proposed MIME media type for JSON Schema Instances that require a JSON
Schema-specific media type is defined as follows:

Type name:: application

Subtype name:: schema-instance+json

Required parameters:: N/A

Encoding considerations:: Encoding considerations are identical to those
specified for the `application/json` media type. See [JSON](#rfc8259).

Security considerations:: See {{security}} above.

Interoperability considerations:: See Sections [6.2](#language),
[6.3](#integers), and [6.4](#regex) above.

Fragment identifier considerations:: See {{fragments}}

## References

### Normative References

#### [RFC2119] {#rfc2119}

Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels", BCP 14,
RFC 2119, DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
<<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>>.

#### [RFC3986] {#rfc3986}

Berners-Lee, T., Fielding, R., and L. Masinter, "Uniform Resource Identifier
(URI): Generic Syntax", STD 66, RFC 3986, DOI 10.17487/RFC3986, January 2005,
<<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>>.

#### [RFC3987] {#rfc3987}

Duerst, M. and M. Suignard, "Internationalized Resource Identifiers (IRIs)", RFC
3987, DOI 10.17487/RFC3987, January 2005,
<<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3987>>.

#### [RFC6839] {#rfc6839}

Hansen, T. and A. Melnikov, "Additional Media Type Structured Syntax Suffixes",
RFC 6839, DOI 10.17487/RFC6839, January 2013,
<<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6839>>.

#### [RFC6901] {#rfc6901}

Bryan, P., Ed., Zyp, K., and M. Nottingham, Ed., "JavaScript Object Notation
(JSON) Pointer", RFC 6901, DOI 10.17487/RFC6901, April 2013,
<<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6901>>.

#### [RFC8259] {#rfc8259}

Bray, T., Ed., "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format",
STD 90, RFC 8259, DOI 10.17487/RFC8259, December 2017,
<<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8259>>.

#### [W3C.REC-ldp-20150226] {#w3crec-ldp-20150226}

Malhotra, A., Ed., Arwe, J., Ed., and S. Speicher, Ed., "Linked Data Platform
1.0", W3C REC REC-ldp-20150226, W3C REC-ldp-20150226, 26 February 2015,
<<https://www.w3.org/TR/2015/REC-ldp-20150226/>>.

#### [ecma262] {#ecma262}

"ECMA-262, 11th edition specification", June 2020,
<<https://www.ecma-international.org/ecma-262/11.0/index.html>>.

### Informative References

#### [RFC6596] {#rfc6596}

Ohye, M. and J. Kupke, "The Canonical Link Relation", RFC 6596, DOI
10.17487/RFC6596, April 2012, <<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6596>>.

#### [RFC7049] {#rfc7049}

Bormann, C. and P. Hoffman, "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)", RFC
7049, DOI 10.17487/RFC7049, October 2013,
<<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7049>>.

#### [RFC7231] {#rfc7231}

Fielding, R., Ed. and J. Reschke, Ed., "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
Semantics and Content", RFC 7231, DOI 10.17487/RFC7231, June 2014,
<<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7231>>.

#### [RFC8288] {#rfc8288}

Nottingham, M., "Web Linking", RFC 8288, DOI 10.17487/RFC8288, October 2017,
<<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8288>>.

#### [W3C.WD-fragid-best-practices-20121025]
{#w3cwd-fragid-best-practices-20121025}

Tennison, J., Ed., "Best Practices for Fragment Identifiers and Media Type
Definitions", W3C WD WD-fragid-best-practices-20121025, W3C
WD-fragid-best-practices-20121025, 25 October 2012,
<<https://www.w3.org/TR/2012/WD-fragid-best-practices-20121025/>>.

#### [W3C.REC-xptr-framework-20030325] {#w3crec-xptr-framework-20030325}

Maler, E., Ed., Marsh, J., Ed., Walsh, N., Ed., and P. Grosso, Ed., "XPointer
Framework", W3C REC REC-xptr-framework-20030325, W3C
REC-xptr-framework-20030325, 25 March 2003,
<<https://www.w3.org/TR/2003/REC-xptr-framework-20030325/>>.

#### [json-schema-validation] {#json-schema-validation}

Wright, A., Andrews, H., and B. Hutton, "JSON Schema Validation: A Vocabulary
for Structural Validation of JSON", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft,
draft-bhutton-json-schema-validation-01, June 2022,
<<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-bhutton-json-schema-validation-01>>.

#### [json-hyper-schema] {#json-hyper-schema}

Andrews, H. and A. Wright, "JSON Hyper-Schema: A Vocabulary for Hypermedia
Annotation of JSON", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft,
draft-handrews-json-schema-hyperschema-02, November 2017,
<<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-handrews-json-schema-hyperschema-02>>.

#### [xml-names] {#xml-names}

Bray, T., Ed., Hollander, D., Ed., Layman, A., Ed., and R. Tobin, Ed.,
"Namespaces in XML 1.1 (Second Edition)", August 2006,
<<http://www.w3.org/TR/2006/REC-xml-names11-20060816>>.

## [Appendix] Schema identification examples {#idexamples}

Consider the following schema, which shows `$id` being used to identify both the
root schema and various subschemas, and `$anchor` being used to define plain
name fragment identifiers.

```jsonschema
{
  "$id": "https://example.com/root.json",
  "$defs": {
    "A": { "$anchor": "foo" },
    "B": {
      "$id": "other.json",
      "$defs": {
        "X": { "$anchor": "bar" },
        "Y": {
          "$id": "t/inner.json",
          "$anchor": "bar"
        }
      }
    },
    "C": {
      "$id": "urn:uuid:ee564b8a-7a87-4125-8c96-e9f123d6766f"
    }
  }
}
```

The schemas at the following IRI-encoded [JSON Pointers](#rfc6901) (relative to
the root schema) have the following base IRIs, and are identifiable by any
listed IRI in accordance with {{fragments}} and {{embedded}} above.

`#` (document root): canonical (and base) IRI: `https://example.com/root.json`
- canonical resource IRI plus pointer fragment: `https://example.com/root.json#`

`#/$defs/A`: base IRI: `https://example.com/root.json`
- canonical resource IRI plus plain fragment:
  `https://example.com/root.json#foo`
- canonical resource IRI plus pointer fragment:
  `https://example.com/root.json#/$defs/A`

`#/$defs/B`: canonical (and base) `IRI: https://example.com/other.json`
- canonical resource IRI plus pointer fragment:
  `https://example.com/other.json#`
- base IRI of enclosing (root.json) resource plus fragment:
  `https://example.com/root.json#/$defs/B`

`#/$defs/B/$defs/X`: base IRI: `https://example.com/other.json`
- canonical resource IRI plus plain fragment:
  `https://example.com/other.json#bar`
- canonical resource IRI plus pointer fragment:
  `https://example.com/other.json#/$defs/X`
- base IRI of enclosing (root.json) resource plus fragment:
  `https://example.com/root.json#/$defs/B/$defs/X`

`#/$defs/B/$defs/Y`: canonical (and base) IRI:
`https://example.com/t/inner.json`
- canonical IRI plus plain fragment: `https://example.com/t/inner.json#bar`
- canonical IRI plus pointer fragment: `https://example.com/t/inner.json#`
- base IRI of enclosing (other.json) resource plus fragment:
  `https://example.com/other.json#/$defs/Y`
- base IRI of enclosing (root.json) resource plus fragment:
  `https://example.com/root.json#/$defs/B/$defs/Y`

`#/$defs/C`: canonical (and base) IRI:
`urn:uuid:ee564b8a-7a87-4125-8c96-e9f123d6766f`
- canonical IRI plus pointer fragment:
  `urn:uuid:ee564b8a-7a87-4125-8c96-e9f123d6766f#`
- base IRI of enclosing (root.json) resource plus fragment:
  `https://example.com/root.json#/$defs/C`

Note: The fragment part of the IRI does not make it canonical or non-canonical,
rather, the base IRI used (as part of the full IRI with any fragment) is what
determines the canonical nature of the resulting full IRI.[^18]

[^18]: Multiple "canonical" IRIs? We Acknowledge this is potentially confusing,
and direct you to read the CREF located in the [JSON Pointer fragments and
embedded schema resources](#embedded) section for further comments.

## [Appendix] Manipulating schema documents and references

Various tools have been created to rearrange schema documents based on how and
where references (`$ref`) appear. This appendix discusses which use cases and
actions are compliant with this specification.

### Bundling schema resources into a single document

A set of schema resources intended for use together can be organized with each
in its own schema document, all in the same schema document, or any granularity
of document grouping in between.

Numerous tools exist to perform various sorts of reference removal. A common
case of this is producing a single file where all references can be resolved
within that file. This is typically done to simplify distribution, or to
simplify coding so that various invocations of JSON Schema libraries do not have
to keep track of and load a large number of resources.

This transformation can be safely and reversibly done as long as all static
references (e.g. `$ref`) use IRI-references that resolve to IRIs using the
canonical resource IRI as the base, and all schema resources have an
absolute-IRI as the `$id` in their root schema.

With these conditions met, each external resource can be copied under `$defs`,
without breaking any references among the resources' schema objects, and without
changing any aspect of validation or annotation results. The names of the
schemas under `$defs` do not affect behavior, assuming they are each unique, as
they do not appear in the canonical IRIs for the embedded resources.

### Reference removal is not always safe

Attempting to remove all references and produce a single schema document does
not, in all cases, produce a schema with identical behavior to the original
form.

Since `$ref` is now treated like any other keyword, with other keywords allowed
in the same schema objects, fully supporting non-recursive `$ref` removal in all
cases can require relatively complex schema manipulations. It is beyond the
scope of this specification to determine or provide a set of safe `$ref` removal
transformations, as they depend not only on the schema structure but also on the
intended usage.

## [Appendix] Example of recursive schema extension {#recursive-example}

Consider the following two schemas describing a simple recursive tree structure,
where each node in the tree can have a "data" field of any type. The first
schema allows and ignores other instance properties. The second is more strict
and only allows the "data" and "children" properties. An example instance with
"data" misspelled as "daat" is also shown.

```jsonschema "Tree schema, extensible"
{
  "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/next/schema",
  "$id": "https://example.com/tree",
  "$dynamicAnchor": "node",

  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "data": true,
    "children": {
      "type": "array",
      "items": {
        "$dynamicRef": "#node"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

```jsonschema "Strict-tree schema, guards against misspelled properties"
{
  "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/next/schema",
  "$id": "https://example.com/strict-tree",
  "$dynamicAnchor": "node",

  "$ref": "tree",
  "unevaluatedProperties": false
}
```

```jsonschema "Instance with misspelled field"
{
  "children": [ { "daat": 1 } ]
}
```

When we load these two schemas, we will notice the `$dynamicAnchor` named "node"
(note the lack of "#" as this is just the name) present in each, resulting in
the following full schema IRIs:

- `https://example.com/tree#node`
- `https://example.com/strict-tree#node`

In addition, JSON Schema implementations keep track of the fact that these
fragments were created with `$dynamicAnchor`.

If we apply the "strict-tree" schema to the instance, we will follow the `$ref`
to the "tree" schema, examine its "children" subschema, and find the
`$dynamicRef`: to "#node" (note the `#` for IRI fragment syntax) in its `items`
subschema. That reference resolves to `https://example.com/tree#node`, which is
a IRI with a fragment created by `$dynamicAnchor`. Therefore we must examine the
dynamic scope before following the reference.

At this point, the evaluation path is
`#/$ref/properties/children/items/$dynamicRef`, with a dynamic scope containing
(from the outermost scope to the innermost):

1. `https://example.com/strict-tree#`
1. `https://example.com/tree#`
1. `https://example.com/tree#/properties/children`
1. `https://example.com/tree#/properties/children/items`

Since we are looking for a plain name fragment, which can be defined anywhere
within a schema resource, the JSON Pointer fragments are irrelevant to this
check. That means that we can remove those fragments and eliminate consecutive
duplicates, producing:

1. `https://example.com/strict-tree`
1. `https://example.com/tree`

In this case, the outermost resource also has a "node" fragment defined by
`$dynamicAnchor`. Therefore instead of resolving the `$dynamicRef` to
`https://example.com/tree#node`, we resolve it to
`https://example.com/strict-tree#node`.

This way, the recursion in the "tree" schema recurses to the root of
"strict-tree", instead of only applying "strict-tree" to the instance root, but
applying "tree" to instance children.

This example shows both `$dynamicAnchor`s in the same place in each schema,
specifically the resource root schema. Since plain-name fragments are
independent of the JSON structure, this would work just as well if one or both
of the node schema objects were moved under `$defs`. It is the matching
`$dynamicAnchor` values which tell us how to resolve the dynamic reference, not
any sort of correlation in JSON structure.

## [Appendix] Working with vocabularies

### Best practices for vocabulary and meta-schema authors {#vocab-practices}

Vocabulary authors should take care to avoid keyword name collisions if the
vocabulary is intended for broad use, and potentially combined with other
vocabularies. JSON Schema does not provide any formal namespacing system, but
also does not constrain keyword names, allowing for any number of namespacing
approaches.

Vocabularies may build on each other, such as by defining the behavior of their
keywords with respect to the behavior of keywords from another vocabulary, or by
using a keyword from another vocabulary with a restricted or expanded set of
acceptable values. Not all such vocabulary re-use will result in a new
vocabulary that is compatible with the vocabulary on which it is built.
Vocabulary authors should clearly document what level of compatibility, if any,
is expected.

Meta-schema authors should not use `$vocabulary` to combine multiple
vocabularies that define conflicting syntax or semantics for the same keyword.
As semantic conflicts are not generally detectable through schema validation,
implementations are not expected to detect such conflicts. If conflicting
vocabularies are declared, the resulting behavior is undefined.

Vocabulary authors SHOULD provide a meta-schema that validates the expected
usage of the vocabulary's keywords on their own. Such meta-schemas SHOULD not
forbid additional keywords, and MUST not forbid any keywords from the Core
vocabulary.

It is recommended that meta-schema authors reference each vocabulary's
meta-schema using the [`allOf`](#allof) keyword, although other mechanisms for
constructing the meta-schema may be appropriate for certain use cases.

The recursive nature of meta-schemas makes the `$dynamicAnchor` and
`$dynamicRef` keywords particularly useful for extending existing meta-schemas,
as can be seen in the JSON Hyper-Schema meta-schema which extends the Validation
meta-schema.

Meta-schemas may impose additional constraints, including describing keywords
not present in any vocabulary, beyond what the meta-schemas associated with the
declared vocabularies describe. This allows for restricting usage to a subset of
a vocabulary, and for validating locally defined keywords not intended for
re-use.

However, meta-schemas should not contradict any vocabularies that they declare,
such as by requiring a different JSON type than the vocabulary expects. The
resulting behavior is undefined.

Meta-schemas intended for local use, with no need to test for vocabulary support
in arbitrary implementations, can safely omit `$vocabulary` entirely.

### Example meta-schema with vocabulary declarations {#example-meta-schema}

This meta-schema explicitly declares both the Core and Applicator vocabularies,
together with an extension vocabulary, and combines their meta-schemas with an
`allOf`. The extension vocabulary's meta-schema, which describes only the
keywords in that vocabulary, is shown after the main example meta-schema.

The main example meta-schema also restricts the usage of the Unevaluated
vocabulary by forbidding the keywords prefixed with "unevaluated", which are
particularly complex to implement. This does not change the semantics or set of
keywords defined by the other vocabularies. It just ensures that schemas using
this meta-schema that attempt to use the keywords prefixed with "unevaluated"
will fail validation against this meta-schema.

Finally, this meta-schema describes the syntax of a keyword, "localKeyword",
that is not part of any vocabulary. Presumably, the implementors and users of
this meta-schema will understand the semantics of "localKeyword". JSON Schema
does not define any mechanism for expressing keyword semantics outside of
vocabularies, making them unsuitable for use except in a specific environment in
which they are understood.

This meta-schema combines several vocabularies for general use.

```jsonschema
{
  "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/next/schema",
  "$id": "https://example.com/meta/general-use-example",
  "$dynamicAnchor": "meta",
  "$vocabulary": {
    "https://json-schema.org/draft/next/vocab/core": true,
    "https://json-schema.org/draft/next/vocab/applicator": true,
    "https://json-schema.org/draft/next/vocab/validation": true,
    "https://example.com/vocab/example-vocab": true
  },
  "allOf": [
    {"$ref": "https://json-schema.org/draft/next/meta/core"},
    {"$ref": "https://json-schema.org/draft/next/meta/applicator"},
    {"$ref": "https://json-schema.org/draft/next/meta/validation"},
    {"$ref": "https://example.com/meta/example-vocab",
  ],
  "patternProperties": {
    "^unevaluated": false
  },
  "properties": {
    "localKeyword": {
      "$comment": "Not in vocabulary, but validated if used",
      "type": "string"
    }
  }
}
```

This meta-schema describes only a single extension vocabulary.

```jsonschema
{
  "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/next/schema",
  "$id": "https://example.com/meta/example-vocab",
  "$dynamicAnchor": "meta",
  "$vocabulary": {
    "https://example.com/vocab/example-vocab": true,
  },
  "type": ["object", "boolean"],
  "properties": {
    "minDate": {
      "type": "string",
      "pattern": "\\d\\d\\d\\d-\\d\\d-\\d\\d",
      "format": "date",
    }
  }
}
```

As shown above, even though each of the single-vocabulary meta-schemas
referenced in the general-use meta-schema's `allOf` declares its corresponding
vocabulary, this new meta-schema must re-declare them.

The standard meta-schemas that combine all vocabularies defined by the Core and
Validation specification, and that combine all vocabularies defined by those
specifications as well as the Hyper-Schema specification, demonstrate additional
complex combinations. These IRIs for these meta-schemas may be found in the
Validation and Hyper-Schema specifications, respectively.

While the general-use meta-schema can validate the syntax of `minDate`, it is
the vocabulary that defines the logic behind the semantic meaning of `minDate`.
Without an understanding of the semantics (in this example, that the instance
value must be a date equal to or after the date provided as the keyword's value
in the schema), an implementation can only validate the syntactic usage. In this
case, that means validating that it is a date-formatted string (using `pattern`
to ensure that it is validated even when `format` functions purely as an
annotation, as explained in the [Validation
specification](#json-schema-validation).

## [Appendix] References and generative use cases

While the presence of references is expected to be transparent to validation
results, generative use cases such as code generators and UI renderers often
consider references to be semantically significant.

To make such use case-specific semantics explicit, the best practice is to
create an annotation keyword for use in the same schema object alongside of a
reference keyword such as `$ref`.

For example, here is a hypothetical keyword for determining whether a code
generator should consider the reference target to be a distinct class, and how
those classes are related. Note that this example is solely for illustrative
purposes, and is not intended to propose a functional code generation keyword.

```jsonschema
{
  "allOf": [
    {
      "classRelation": "is-a",
      "$ref": "classes/base.json"
    },
    {
      "$ref": "fields/common.json"
    }
  ],
  "properties": {
    "foo": {
      "classRelation": "has-a",
      "$ref": "classes/foo.json"
    },
    "date": {
      "$ref": "types/dateStruct.json",
    }
  }
}
```

Here, this schema represents some sort of object-oriented class. The first
reference in the `allOf` is noted as the base class. The second is not assigned
a class relationship, meaning that the code generator should combine the
target's definition with this one as if no reference were involved.

Looking at the properties, "foo" is flagged as object composition, while the
"date" property is not. It is simply a field with sub-fields, rather than an
instance of a distinct class.

This style of usage requires the annotation to be in the same object as the
reference, which must be recognizable as a reference.

## [Appendix] Acknowledgments

Thanks to Gary Court, Francis Galiegue, Kris Zyp, Geraint Luff, and Henry
Andrews for their work on the initial drafts of JSON Schema.

Thanks to Jason Desrosiers, Daniel Perrett, Erik Wilde, Evgeny Poberezkin, Brad
Bowman, Gowry Sankar, Donald Pipowitch, Dave Finlay, Denis Laxalde, Phil
Sturgeon, Shawn Silverman, and Karen Etheridge for their submissions and patches
to the document.

## [Appendix] Change Log[^19]

[^19]: This section to be removed before leaving Internet-Draft status.

### draft-bhutton-json-schema-next
- `contains` now applies to objects as well as arrays
- Use IRIs instead of URIs
- Remove bookending requirement for `$dynamicRef`
- Add `propertyDependencies` keyword

### draft-bhutton-json-schema-01
- Improve and clarify the `type`, `contains`, `unevaluatedProperties`, and
  `unevaluatedItems` keyword explanations
- Clarify various aspects of "canonical URIs"
- Comment on ambiguity around annotations and `additionalProperties`
- Clarify Vocabularies need not be formally defined
- Remove references to remaining media-type parameters
- Fix multiple examples

### draft-bhutton-json-schema-00
- `$schema` MAY change for embedded resources
- Array-value `items` functionality is now `prefixItems`
- `items` subsumes the old function of `additionalItems`
- `contains` annotation behavior, and `contains` and `unevaluatedItems`
  interactions now specified
- Rename $recursive* to $dynamic*, with behavior modification
- $dynamicAnchor defines a fragment like $anchor
- $dynamic* (previously $recursive) no longer use runtime base URI determination
- Define Compound Schema Documents (bundle) and processing
- Reference ECMA-262, 11th edition for regular expression support
- Regular expression should support unicode
- Remove media type parameters
- Specify Unknown keywords are collected as annotations
- Moved `unevaluatedItems` and `unevaluatedProperties` from core into their own
  vocabulary

### draft-handrews-json-schema-02
- Update to RFC 8259 for JSON specification
- Moved `definitions` from the Validation specification here as `$defs`
- Moved applicator keywords from the Validation specification as their own
  vocabulary
- Moved the schema form of `dependencies` from the Validation specification as
  `dependentSchemas`
- Formalized annotation collection
- Specified recommended output formats
- Defined keyword interactions in terms of annotation and assertion results
- Added `unevaluatedProperties` and `unevaluatedItems`
- Define `$ref` behavior in terms of the assertion, applicator, and annotation
  model
- Allow keywords adjacent to `$ref`
- Note undefined behavior for `$ref` targets involving unknown keywords
- Add recursive referencing, primarily for meta-schema extension
- Add the concept of formal vocabularies, and how they can be recognized through
  meta-schemas
- Additional guidance on initial base URIs beyond network retrieval
- Allow "schema" media type parameter for `application/schema+json`
- Better explanation of media type parameters and the HTTP Accept header
- Use `$id` to establish canonical and base absolute-URIs only, no fragments
- Replace plain-name-fragment-only form of `$id` with `$anchor`
- Clarified that the behavior of JSON Pointers across `$id` boundary is
  unreliable

### draft-handrews-json-schema-01
- This draft is purely a clarification with no functional changes
- Emphasized annotations as a primary usage of JSON Schema
- Clarified $id by use cases
- Exhaustive schema identification examples
- Replaced "external referencing" with how and when an implementation might know
  of a schema from another document
- Replaced "internal referencing" with how an implementation should recognized
  schema identifiers during parsing
- Dereferencing the former "internal" or "external" references is always the
  same process
- Minor formatting improvements

### draft-handrews-json-schema-00
- Make the concept of a schema keyword vocabulary more clear
- Note that the concept of "integer" is from a vocabulary, not the data model
- Classify keywords as assertions or annotations and describe their general
  behavior
- Explain the boolean schemas in terms of generalized assertions
- Reserve `$comment` for non-user-visible notes about the schema
- Wording improvements around `$id` and fragments
- Note the challenges of extending meta-schemas with recursive references
- Add `application/schema-instance+json` media type
- Recommend a "schema" link relation / parameter instead of "profile"

### draft-wright-json-schema-01
- Updated intro
- Allowed for any schema to be a boolean
- `$schema` SHOULD NOT appear in subschemas, although that may change
- Changed `id` to `$id`; all core keywords prefixed with "$"
- Clarify and formalize fragments for `application/schema+json`
- Note applicability to formats such as CBOR that can be represented in the JSON
  data model

### draft-wright-json-schema-00
- Updated references to JSON
- Updated references to HTTP
- Updated references to JSON Pointer
- Behavior for `id` is now specified in terms of RFC3986
- Aligned vocabulary usage for URIs with RFC3986
- Removed reference to draft-pbryan-zyp-json-ref-03
- Limited use of `$ref` to wherever a schema is expected
- Added definition of the "JSON Schema data model"
- Added additional security considerations
- Defined use of subschema identifiers for `id`
- Rewrote section on usage with HTTP
- Rewrote section on usage with rel="describedBy" and rel="profile"
- Fixed numerous invalid examples

### draft-zyp-json-schema-04
- Salvaged from draft v3.
- Split validation keywords into separate document.
- Split hypermedia keywords into separate document.
- Initial post-split draft.
- Mandate the use of JSON Reference, JSON Pointer.
- Define the role of `id`. Define URI resolution scope.
- Add interoperability considerations.

### draft-zyp-json-schema-00
- Initial draft.

## Authors' Addresses
| Author                   | Company | Email                   | URI                              |
|--------------------------|---------|-------------------------|----------------------------------|
| Austin Wright (*editor*) |         | <aaa@bzfx.net>          |                                  |
| Ben Hutton (*editor*)    | Postman | <ben@jsonschema.dev>    | <https://jsonschema.dev>         |
| Greg Dennis              |         | <gregsdennis@yahoo.com> | <https://github.com/gregsdennis> |
