README.md, before:

## Welcome to JSON Schema

JSON Schema is a vocabulary that allows you to validate, annotate, and manipulate JSON documents.

This repository contains the sources for current JSON Schema draft work.

## Call for reviews

Specifications are starting to get written. Reviews, comments and suggestions
are of paramount importance to JSON Schema. It is humbly asked to you, dear
reader, that you bring your contribution.

## Status
For the current status of issues and pull requests, please see the following labels

[![Available](https://img.shields.io/waffle/label/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/Status:%20Available.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Status%3A+Available%22) [![In Progress](https://img.shields.io/waffle/label/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/Status:%20In%20Progress.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/labels/Status:%20In%20Progress) [![Review Needed](https://img.shields.io/waffle/label/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/Status:%20Review%20Needed.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/labels/Status%3A%20Review%20Needed)

[![Critical](https://img.shields.io/waffle/label/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/Priority:%20Critical.svg?style=flat
)](https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/labels/Priority%3A%20Critical) [![High](https://img.shields.io/waffle/label/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/Priority:%20High.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/labels/Priority%3A%20High) [![Medium](https://img.shields.io/waffle/label/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/Priority:%20Medium.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/labels/Priority%3A%20Medium) [![Low](https://img.shields.io/waffle/label/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/Priority:%20Low.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/labels/Priority%3A%20Low) 

Labels are assigned based on [Sensible Github Labels](https://github.com/Relequestual/sensible-github-labels).

## Contents

* Makefile - scripts to build the Internet-Draft txt/html
* archive/ - files for other/older JSON Schema implementations
* hyper-schema.json - the JSON Hyper-schema meta-schema
* schema.json - the JSON Schema meta-schema
* jsonschema-core.xml - sources for "core" spec
* jsonschema-validation.xml - sources for JSON Schema validation
* jsonschema-hyperschema.xml - sources for hyper-schema spec

Type "make" at a shell to build the .txt and .html spec files.

Descriptions of the xml2rfc, I-D documents, and RFC processes:

* https://xml2rfc.tools.ietf.org/authoring/draft-mrose-writing-rfcs.html
* https://www.ietf.org/tao.html
* https://www.ietf.org/ietf-ftp/1id-guidelines.html
* https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7322.txt

## Previous versions

For previous versions of the specification (like draft-4), please see the [Specification Links](https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/wiki/Specification-Links) page on our github wiki.

## The website

The JSON Schema web site is at http://json-schema.org/

The source for the website is maintained in a separate repository.


## License

The source material in this repository is licensed under the AFL or BSD license.

Commit message:

Reflect that this repo is work in progress.
The phrasing make it seem like this repo contains the source for the versioned instances of the specification, which is not the case. Trying to make it clearer.

README.md, after:

## Welcome to JSON Schema

JSON Schema is a vocabulary that allows you to validate, annotate, and manipulate JSON documents.

This repository contains the sources for the **work in progress** of the next JSON Schema IETF Internet Draft (ID) document.
For released versions, please see the [Previous Versions](#previous-versions) section.

## Call for reviews

Specifications are starting to get written. Reviews, comments and suggestions
are of paramount importance to JSON Schema. It is humbly asked to you, dear
reader, that you bring your contribution.

## Status
For the current status of issues and pull requests, please see the following labels

[![Available](https://img.shields.io/waffle/label/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/Status:%20Available.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Status%3A+Available%22) [![In Progress](https://img.shields.io/waffle/label/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/Status:%20In%20Progress.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/labels/Status:%20In%20Progress) [![Review Needed](https://img.shields.io/waffle/label/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/Status:%20Review%20Needed.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/labels/Status%3A%20Review%20Needed)

[![Critical](https://img.shields.io/waffle/label/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/Priority:%20Critical.svg?style=flat
)](https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/labels/Priority%3A%20Critical) [![High](https://img.shields.io/waffle/label/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/Priority:%20High.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/labels/Priority%3A%20High) [![Medium](https://img.shields.io/waffle/label/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/Priority:%20Medium.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/labels/Priority%3A%20Medium) [![Low](https://img.shields.io/waffle/label/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/Priority:%20Low.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/labels/Priority%3A%20Low) 

Labels are assigned based on [Sensible Github Labels](https://github.com/Relequestual/sensible-github-labels).

## Contents

* Makefile - scripts to build the Internet-Draft txt/html
* archive/ - files for other/older JSON Schema implementations
* hyper-schema.json - the JSON Hyper-schema meta-schema
* schema.json - the JSON Schema meta-schema
* jsonschema-core.xml - sources for "core" spec
* jsonschema-validation.xml - sources for JSON Schema validation
* jsonschema-hyperschema.xml - sources for hyper-schema spec

Type "make" at a shell to build the .txt and .html spec files.

Descriptions of the xml2rfc, I-D documents, and RFC processes:

* https://xml2rfc.tools.ietf.org/authoring/draft-mrose-writing-rfcs.html
* https://www.ietf.org/tao.html
* https://www.ietf.org/ietf-ftp/1id-guidelines.html
* https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7322.txt

## Previous versions

For previous versions of the specification (like draft-4), please see the [Specification Links](https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/wiki/Specification-Links) page on our github wiki.

## The website

The JSON Schema web site is at http://json-schema.org/

The source for the website is maintained in a separate repository.


## License

The source material in this repository is licensed under the AFL or BSD license.
