proposals/proposal-template.md, before:

# JSON Schema Proposal: <TODO>

## Abstract

<!--
Fill in the specification(s) that will change.  If adding a keyword, which vocabulary
will contain it?

For example

    This document proposes a change to the JSON Schema Core specification and
    Applicator vocabulary by adding the `propertyDependencies` keyword.

-->

This document proposes a change to the ??? specification by adding ???.

## Current Status

<!--
Status is free text: just something to explain where the proposal is in
its journey.  This status does not align with the SLDC feature life cycle.
-->

## Note to Readers

<!--
It would be a good idea to isolate the issues that discuss the feature by
updating the link below to include a query.
-->

The issues list for this proposal can be found at
<https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/issues>.

For additional information, see <https://json-schema.org/>.

To provide feedback, use this issue tracker or any of the communication methods
listed on the homepage.

## Table of Contents

## Conventions and Terminology

All conventions and terms used and defined by the JSON Schema Core specification
also apply to this document.

## Overview

### Problem Statement

<!-- What problem exists that needs solving? -->

### Solution

<!-- What is the solution?  Include examples of use. -->

### Limitations

<!-- Are there any limitations inherent to the proposal? -->

## Change Details

### Target

<!--
Where does this change go?

For example

    This proposal will add the {{propertyDependencies}} section contained herein as
    a subsection of JSON Schema Core, section 10.2.2 "Keywords for Applying
    Subschemas Conditionally."

-->

This proposal will add the {{???}} section contained herein as
a subsection of ???.

### ???

<!-- What is the text that will appear in the specification? -->

## [Appendix] Change Log

* [MMMM YYYY] Created

## [Appendix] Champions

| Champion                   | Company | Email                   | URI                              |
|----------------------------|---------|-------------------------|----------------------------------|
| Your Name                  |         |                         | < GitHub profile page >          |

Commit message:

update template to align with actual proposal

proposals/proposal-template.md, after:

# JSON Schema Proposal: <TODO>

## Abstract

<!--
Fill in the specification(s) that will change.  If adding a keyword, which vocabulary
will contain it?

For example

    This document proposes a change to the JSON Schema Core specification and
    Applicator vocabulary by adding the `propertyDependencies` keyword.

-->

This document proposes a change to the ??? specification by adding ???.

## Current Status

<!--
Status is free text: just something to explain where the proposal is in
its journey.  This status does not align with the SDLC feature life cycle.
-->

## Note to Readers

<!--
It would be a good idea to isolate the issues that discuss the feature by
updating the link below to include a query.
-->

The issues list for this proposal can be found at
<https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/issues>.

For additional information, see <https://json-schema.org/>.

To provide feedback, use this issue tracker or any of the communication methods
listed on the homepage.

## Table of Contents

## Conventions and Terminology

All conventions and terms used and defined by the JSON Schema Core specification
also apply to this document.

## Overview

### Problem Statement

<!-- What problem exists that needs solving? -->

### Solution

<!-- What is the solution?  Include examples of use. -->

### Limitations

<!-- Are there any limitations inherent to the proposal? -->

## Change Details

<!--
This is where the specification changes are defined. This must be precise as
these changes will be made verbatim.

For example

1. The following section will be added to the JSON Schema Core specification as
   a subsection of "Keywords for Applying Subschemas Conditionally".
    > ### {New section name}
    >
    > {Feature description}
2. The following subschema will be added to the Applicator Vocabulary schema,
   `https://json-schema.org/<version>/<release>/meta/applicator`, at
   `/properties/{keyword}`:
    ```jsonc
    {
      // keyword schema
    }
    ```
-->

## [Appendix] Change Log

* [MMMM YYYY] Created

## [Appendix] Champions

| Champion                   | Company | Email                   | URI                              |
|----------------------------|---------|-------------------------|----------------------------------|
| Your Name                  |         |                         | < GitHub profile page >          |
